All right, everybody. Welcome back to your favorite podcast. The all in podcast today, we have a conspiracy corner episode for you.
We're going to go over the 9-11 inside job. We're going over Flatter, JFK assassination. It's going to be all conspiracy all the time after our amazing blockbuster episode during ski week.
We're going all conspiracy our guests today. Now, it's Jones. How many views did it get nine views?
I mean, it's tough when you have one out of four besties. It doesn't. Michael Tracy is on standby.
Not true. I can carry an episode for at least 400,000 views.
I mean, I like your, hey, for people who don't know, traumatic has his own YouTube channel.
He's got his escape hatch, but when this train wreck burns to the ground, he started his own YouTube channel. He's hedging his bets.
Free birds working on his solo project. Everybody's doing solo project. The bands got a lot of solo projects.
The Beatles are experimenting. The Beatles are experimenting. We had a little yoko on this.
The situation going on here. You know what? The number one topic for this show was by the all in AI bot sex.
What's up? The number one was Dario versus headset.
The Department of War versus anthropic was the number one topics selected by our AI bot as a program.
I mean, no, for folks, that decision will be made end of the day Friday when this podcast comes out.
So we will talk about it next week. But let's get to work.
We've got a full docket. The Claude kill list has expanded.
And an AI fan fiction sub stack tanked your 401k on Monday. Let's get into it.
Anthropics generational run continues. They're now three for three in tanking different market sectors.
In February, congratulations. This is like they took the the mantle from Brad Gersner tanking the market.
The Anthropics. It is February 3rd. Anthropic announces, hey,
we got a legal plug-in for Claude. Cover. Thompson Reuters Lexus Nexus,
Legos and all down at least 10% since February 3rd.
Then on February 20th Claude code security is announced in a limited research preview.
Stocks tank again. Crowd strike cloud for octah all down. Then February 23rd.
Anthropic announces Claude can modernize cobalt databases. If you don't know cobalt,
that's the like oldest coding language in the world.
That's where Sachs learned code when he was in college in the 70s.
It's used for banking, payroll, government, health care, health care.
It runs 95% of ATMs in the U.S. and it powers social security payments.
85% of all cobalt code runs on IBM machines. So IBM decided they would tank 13% on Monday.
There was day since $2,000, $31 billion in market cap losses.
So let's stop here before I get into the fan fiction piece.
What's your take here of what's happening in the market, Shemoth?
Is this simply people looking for an excuse to trim their positions?
Because things have been top ticking all time highs and people are just looking for an excuse.
Or is this reality? Is this the go-forward reality that AI is going to compress these kind of socks?
Because it solves a lot of problems.
I'm going to give you two explanations.
I don't know what percentage I would allocate across the two.
But I think one is tactical and one is much more strategic.
But I think both are happening.
The tactical one is that we're at a moment in time where a lot of the smart money hedge funds
are starting to massively digress.
And what that means is they're trimming a lot of positions and they're just taking on a lot less risk.
Why? I don't exactly know. It could be motivated by the second thing that I'm going to talk about.
But the point is in a degrocing cycle, you tend to be trimming risk and making your position sizes much smaller.
So the longs become less long. The shorts become less short and you just shrink.
And so there's just general downward pressure.
That is a clear behavior right now.
But I think the structural change is the more important one.
And this is sort of what I talked about this morning.
In a normal functioning market, what we are always debating is when a set of cash flows
go from becoming highly confident to less highly confident.
It's a when conversation.
So when will Coca-Cola's cash flows be impacted?
When will Eli Lilly's cash flows be impacted?
When will Meta's cash flows be impacted?
And the answer to the when gets translated by the public markets into three things.
Your price to earnings multiple.
Where if you invert that number,
what that is equivalent to is the yield on the money that you get.
Okay? So if you're 20 times PE, that's a 5% yield.
The second is a revenue multiple.
And the third is what's called your weighted average cost of capital,
which is to say, if you look at the next 20 to 30 years of earnings,
and you want to figure out what that is worth today.
You have to discount all of these back and you have to assume a percentage of interest effectively
that it takes to get there.
And the basic math of this is that when you have a high whack, it's called,
you're massively discounting these cash flows.
When you have a low whack, you're assuming that these things are very durable.
Okay, so what is happening?
We used to debate when.
This is no longer a when moment.
The market is very much in an if mode.
Are these cash flows durable at all?
Could they fall off a cliff in your three?
Is there some AI model that's going to come around the corner
and obliterate this business without me knowing it?
And because they've shifted into this if mindset,
your risk becomes totally different.
You have this event risk that you don't know how to price.
And whenever the market shifts into that mode,
what you see are that the holders of those equities
want a massive margin of safety.
What does that mean?
They have to take PE's way down.
If you used to trade at 40, you should trade at 20.
If you used to trade at 20, you should trade at 10.
They take revenue multiples down.
You used to trade at 10 times revenue.
Now you're going to trade at three times.
You take the whack way up.
Used to be a 6% discounted weighted average cost of capital.
You know what? I'm taking you to 12 or 13.
That's the market's way of saying,
I'm now debating if these things will even exist.
And so I need to give myself a huge buffer to own this stuff.
That's what's happening right now.
It has a lot of ripple effects that we can talk about.
Freebreak and I've talked about this a lot.
The most obvious impact is how these tech companies recruit and retain talent.
Because the biggest thing that it starts to eat into
are the cash flows of the business,
which really directly type to stop based companies,
all the stuff.
But let me just stop there.
We have moved away from a win to now and if.
And I think that that is a very smart question to be asking.
The answer may be for many of these companies that they will survive,
but we don't know how long.
And until that becomes clearer,
you have to give yourself room to be wrong.
You said when, then if, do you mean if,
no, no, no, no.
We've always debated when.
When will these cash flows disappear?
Now it's like, will they even exist?
Got it. Okay.
So the second part of the story, Freebreak and Sachs,
is that a sub-stack post,
fan fiction, taking place in the fictional 2028.
Global intelligence crisis went mega viral.
28 million views on X was posted Sunday night.
It made the market tank on Monday.
In this fictional sub-stack post,
the author said there's going to be,
essentially a death spiral that happens because of AI.
How does that work?
Well, first companies embrace AI.
Everything goes right.
They're able to cut stuff.
Their margins go up similar to how Amazon has.
You know, trimmed their white collar staff.
Then they're so successful at this that they lose their customer base.
Because consumers don't have discretionary funding to spend.
Then the creates a death spiral with a company's keep deploying AI
to try to hit the margins cutting staff.
And the entire economy collapses.
Dr. Doom level stuff.
Unemployment's at 10% SNP goes down from 38% highs.
After this piece came out,
which speculated that agents would get rid of all the 3%
interchange fees and move everybody to settle transactions on
stablecoins.
All the financial stocks got hit on Monday.
Amix down 8% capital 1 down 8% mass,
a card 6% piece of 4% yada yada.
Finally, this piece got a lot of pushback.
There was a silly piece in it.
Or a section in it where they said,
AI agents would vibe code their way to displacing door dash.
And that's kind of silly.
If anybody's running network based business knows.
Sachs, I assume you read this piece.
Or at least saw the fallout from it.
But you're take and then we'll go to you free bar.
Yeah. Well, I know that this,
Citrini article got passed around like a join in a grateful dead
concert.
But I'm starting to question how legitimately viral it really was.
There's some information that just came out that the attribution of
the article has been amended.
Me, the co-authors have been amended to include a short fund
that was shorting some of the names mentioned in the article.
This is according to another post that just came out.
According to this post, the authorship attribution
attributed to market moving was changed after publication
of the co-authors, a managing partner of a $362 million
C.C. registered hedge fund.
Bomp and farm short positions in the company's
the report name.
So I think that's point number one is I just wonder,
did this article truly go viral or did the authors do anything to kind of amplify it?
And we just don't know the answer to that question.
But regardless of that, let's just take the arguments on their phase.
I think one of the best responses to it was by another writer named
Derek Thompson wrote a article called Nobody knows anything,
which I think is a reference to famous take by legendary Hollywood
writer William Goldman.
In any of that, what the article says is no one really knows
was going to happen with AI in two years, never mind, 20 years.
And so they resort to science fiction writing,
mass creating as analysis, and the author here,
Derek Thompson says that the conversation about AI is really just a marketplace
of competing science fiction narratives.
And he says, there's not to say I think the technology is a parlor trick,
but rather that the level of uncertainty is so high,
and the quality and supply of real-world real-time information
about AI's macroeconomic effect, so poultry,
that very serious conversations about AI are often more literary
than genuinely analytical.
So in other words, what he's saying is look,
this guy is writing very compelling science fiction,
but there's no real analytics behind it to defend it.
And yes, this could happen.
Here's a prediction market on whether people believe
this is a training report.
It's going to come true.
Something like 12% believe this is a training scenario.
It's going to happen.
But the truth is no one really knows.
I mean, there's other dual-ing science fiction narratives
where AI's going to create such a world of abundance
that we're not going to need for anything.
And just by the way, Derek Thompson is one of the abundance guys
with Ezra Klein.
This is why the market's getting whacked.
I think that you're right, Sachs.
Nobody knows.
So if you can get 5% for owning government bonds,
why are we taking excessive risk?
Yeah, let me just build on your point about SaaS.
So the reason why there's so much uncertainty around SaaS
is that SaaS used to be such a easily modeled
and predictable category.
And you know, I saw this a VC.
We saw the same story play out across many, many different categories
of software.
You know, this initial period where there'd be this experimentation phase.
You have a bunch of different products that come to market.
They'd be a battle.
And then the market would eventually settle.
And they'd be a category leader.
And they would capture most of the market share and the vast majority
of the market capitalization.
And they would have very, very predictable metrics.
It was very easy to grade a SaaS business.
You look at ARR.
You say annually recurring revenue.
You look at the net dollar retention.
You want to see depending on the phase.
ARR.
ARR.
And so, you know, these things began to be seen as like a
annuity with growth, right?
Because it's rock solid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because a good net dollar attention would be something like 120%.
Which means that you're sort of cohort of existing customers.
On balance would all renew the next year.
And actually they would renew at 120% of their previous year's contract values.
And the reason you got that extra 20% is they would buy more seats or they'd be additional
products or features they would upsell.
It got to be very, very predictable.
And so when people were buying software companies at, I don't know,
13 times ARR, they thought they were buying it growth annuity.
And now all of a sudden you got a factor into that.
Well, wait a second.
What if AI disrupts the whole market?
What if it doesn't eliminate?
I don't think AI is going to get rid of Salesforce.
But it could eat into their growth opportunity.
We just don't know.
What if it changes the pricing model?
I mean, it just creates a whole lot of unknowns.
And I actually don't believe in this attorney or the doomer take on this.
But I can see why the market would feel this level of uncertainty.
100%.
Given how predictable a category SaaS used to be.
Just say a year ago.
Yeah.
Okay.
100%.
Is a ladder freeberg.
And this means opportunity.
So if we look at this and SaaS has head wins, then is there a winner?
Is open source the winner or is this all deflationary in your mind freeberg?
And we just make less money.
And the earnings of these companies get compressed.
The size of them gets compressed.
How do you think about it?
I think fundamentally if you're driving productivity with AI, you're driving leverage on human
time and leverage on capital.
The question is how quickly can you drive that up?
And that's a function of how much consumption there is, how much capacity there is for consumption.
So on the one hand, I'll just speak broadly.
I think like humans have this desire to improve their livelihoods by roughly 10% every year,
meaning like your income and your ability to purchase stuff that's new relative to where
you were last.
You're has to go up by 10% for you to be happy.
If it's less than 10% you're probably unhappy.
Is that that's your anecdote or that's like,
I was just like an anecdote.
Like, I think that's sort of like my rubric for thinking about like, why are people unhappy
or happy?
So if your earnings are the same, but things are getting more expensive, you're not happy.
If your earnings go up by 10% and things stay the same price, you got 10% more than
you had last year.
You're going to be happy.
I just think like all humans are driven by this need to consume more each year than
they did last year.
So I think for me, that's like the lower limit on consumptive capacity in the world.
The question that we're now facing, which we've never faced in human history before,
is there an upper limit on consumptive capacity, because AI creates such a profound shift
in productivity and in leverage that normally you would say, hey, when we get a new tool
or we get new leverage in a system, we build a new technology, we can make more with less.
There are for everyone gets access to more things for the same price or the cost of things
that they consume come down by a certain price.
But there may be a situation now where the ability to make stuff exceeds the capacity
to consume stuff.
And that is something that I don't think we've faced before.
And I think that's where a lot of the models start to break, just general economic models,
just general productivity models, and general social models.
And this goes to the point about like, what is everyone going to do?
In the same way that I think we've argued that maybe SaaS was a transitory business phenomenon
that existed between the foundation of the internet and the era of AI, it may be the case
that knowledge work in general is also a transitory phenomenon that only existed between
the foundation of the computer or computing tools and the existence of AI generally speaking.
And if all of that goes away very quickly, and all of those people can be redistributed
and recast into doing other higher-level, more creative things, their productivity goes
up by 100x, is there really a consumer on the other end of all of that productivity?
Is there really enough consumptive capacity?
And I think that's the profound question that we all face.
I don't think that there's any way of saying that SaaS goes to zero, or that's your way
of saying these companies go to zero, I'm just saying knowledge work in general, like what
is the implication to do?
But this isn't just another dueling science fiction take, I mean, or what's your evidence
for this?
I think it's fine to have a sci-fi take about the future, I think, because I can show you
some data that I think contradicts what you're saying.
And I have some first-hand sort of, in the sense that there is more leverage to tax
that people are able to actually live.
I mean, look, Jake, I want to hear what you have to say, because I know you're experimenting
with this, but let me just show you a few data points real quick, because I think this is
relevant.
We're really talking about the disruption caused by coding assistance, right?
This is like the first big killer app of AI.
I mean, I guess after writing in research for the chatbots, and we'll have agents later,
but really it's all about coding assistance, right?
And the ability to more easily create code, that's the screen to disruption to the SaaS
category.
Well, so this is focused on the data we see right now around that, and there are a lot
of people who are pointing this out that in Thropic right now has a job listing for
a software engineer on their website right now for $570,000 in a lot of people are kind
of pointing out.
Okay, so wait.
So when a thropic is saying is they're still trying to hire software engineers at a very
high wage, but somehow they think these jobs are going to be eliminated.
To mock my to apply for that job, he's, yeah, I'll start already measuring some pretty
good to me.
That's a lot of money to mock my to that job, and then just have AI do it for.
No, I'm I'm worried like I hope my 80 90 team doesn't see that offer.
That's a big number our equity is way higher, but our salaries are not that high.
I mean, you look, you put these things together.
It's like that equity is money.
Good.
The reality is like those guys are doing five to six billion dollar structured secondary
every year now or they're starting, which means that they will, that's like cash compensation.
So for for me to match that, I need to be three X higher than that.
Right, and I think a lot of you are kind of pointing out, well, this is a contradiction.
And the thropic doesn't really seem to be practicing what they're preaching.
If they're paying enormous amounts still for software engineers, even as they claim they're
obviously leading the entire category, something doesn't quite add up.
Citadel securities did a new report that rebuts that's a training report.
And they show a couple of stats here, which I think are really interesting.
So job postings for software engineers are rapidly rising.
They're showing, I think it was roughly a 10% year over year increase in the demand for software
engineers on a related note.
They also show that company formation is also rapidly expanding.
And that may have something to do with AI making it easier to start a business or to get
leverage to your point freeberg.
So look, there's a couple of competing effects going on here.
And I think Aaron Levy had a really good explanation of why you might see something very
counterintuitive happening.
And again, it all goes back to German's paradox.
But what Aaron says is that when you lower the cost of something that was previously
supply constraint, demand for that thing goes up.
Software engineering is just one of the easiest examples to contemplate, but there are
going to be many other jobs like that.
But think about software engineering, even among startups is Silicon Valley, which I think
are probably some of the most attractive places for software engineers to work.
There's always been a chronic shortage of them.
Then you've got the Fortune 500 companies, non-tech companies, which have always had an even
harder time hiring technical talent.
So you have this massive, unfilled need for software engineers across the entire economy.
Now you're going to be able to get a lot more leverage out of software engineers.
It doesn't mean they're going to get fired.
It just means that now maybe you can have a lot more 10x software engineers, and they're
getting those jobs you're not being spread throughout the whole economy.
I also think just to put some numbers on this, I think the cost structure of the average
Fortune 500 business is something like 5% IT.
That includes all of their IT, not just their software.
What should it be?
What should the percentage of software be in an enterprise cost structure?
Elon describes companies as cybernetic organisms that are part software entertainment.
If you think about the current Fortune 500 company being one or two percent software,
maybe this should be 50 percent software, I think what Erin is saying here is the market
for software, and software engineers was so constrained by the lack of availability, that
even if we 10x or 100x, the productivity of software engineers, the demand will be there
to absorb this new supply.
So it could lead to this explosion and productivity without the massive job loss.
I think the thing that I would look at is I would expect objects as a percentage of revenue
to fall off of a cliff, but within that objects, the percentage of it that you allocate
to technology and technology related things probably goes way way up than what it is today.
Jason, the batch of people that are applying for launch has SaaS stopped, has software
stopped.
It's AI first companies, obviously, and people that they rebuilding traditional SaaS tools
just cheap.
Basically, everybody's building, as we talked about at the all-in-sum, it's somebody's companies
are trying to build the best pilot in the world or way most trying to build the best
driver in the world.
People are now trying to build the best SDR in the world, the best salesperson, the best executive
coach.
And so we have been obsessed with cloud co-work, but mainly open-cloth.
And so what we did was, and I think it's not developers that are going to do all this
work, it's knowledge workers.
So we have 20 people in our firm.
We have 15 of them coming this weekend, and they all got trained over like six or seven
hours, had to have their own open-cloth agent and we started building it.
A piece of software that we wanted to buy or build over the last 10 years that we never
got to.
My people are building in the last 30 days as an example, you know, when you're selling
ads for a podcast, you want to check all the other podcasts and when advertisers they have.
We trained an agent to go, take the top 100 podcasts, look through the transcripts, figure
out who the advertisers are, check those advertisers in pipe drive, tell us when the
last time we contacted them and put it into the salesperson.
That was an SDR job that we wanted to fill and software we wanted to build.
Then we wanted people to start building, that was a human that you were paying money and
now you were placed with software or that human still exists and now they just do it
in a better way.
Re-deploying that human.
We have a human doing it.
We're going to redeploy them to do other things.
And the consistency of this chema and the accuracy and then it's doing it all night long.
So we have like seven of these agents in these kind of roles.
The next piece we did was we gave my agent, which is like the Ultron, Axe Bruda access
to Gmail, Calender, Zoom, Notion, Slack.
And what it's doing is it's giving each person, here's what you've got done this week with
their manager.
Here's the email she sent, here's the meeting she took, here's the context here, the
thread you were involved in.
And then it's helping manage those people.
And so we are all that to me says you Jason, despite all your doom arisen, seems like
you're growing and you're going to be hiring more people and you're more protected.
Am I getting this wrong?
No, I'm not doom arisen.
But I think it's going to happen in this issue, but you're growing and you're going
to be hiring more people.
We're not going to add more people, definitely not adding people.
The people we have are becoming 10 or 20% more efficient every week because the software
we would have paid for or built from another vendor if we had the time, or we wanted
to build custom software we had 10 engineers, it's being built by our open-cloud agents.
As an example, when we make clips for this podcast, other podcasts, we have it go and look
at like a, this week in startup episode from 10 years, tell us the three best moments and
it makes the clip, it puts the subtitles on it and then it puts the clip into the slack
room.
That was something that was going to be a full time job.
So we're getting 10, 20% more efficient than I started doing it at home.
So I had to take our Instagram, pull out the last 10 orders we did, and then tell us
what we ordered most of time, and then it's going to automatically build a car for
us.
Every single knowledge where a job is being automated right now, and you can take it,
and if you're a business process head, you know how to do a business process, and you
can structure it and write it with an agent, it'll just run it every day, every week.
We did another agent, how do you make better thumbnails?
And we said every Saturday in your skills.
So when you build an open cloud has like a soul, file, and it has a skills file.
In the skills file, we told us that every week go out and look for people discussing how
to make better thumbnails on YouTube, how to make better titles.
It found this week, you know, somebody at Mr. Beast company talk about how they're using
heat maps.
It was an article I would have never known.
It added it to its skill, and now whenever we post the thumbnail, it tells us based
on its skill that it refines every week, how to make that thumbnail better.
And it's starting to make the thumbnails.
This is becoming recursive.
So you keep the same number of people, but they get 10 or 20% more efficient.
I don't know what this means for the larger economy.
All I know is it's the most exciting time I've had online since the web came out, since
the internet came out.
It is so much fun to automate all this stuff.
The big question that I am thinking about, that I haven't gotten a good answer about, so
I don't I don't know what you guys think is, all these businesses are going to need
to batten down the hatches and give themselves room to figure this all up, right?
Like if you take SACS this point, like if you take your point, J. Cal, which is the young
nimble companies like yours are going to be rapidly experimenting, the bigger larger companies
are going to slowly onboard themselves to start experimenting.
All of that means we're going to get much clearer answers to all of this.
But what it also means is that you're going to have to have time so that you can figure
this all up and if you want to buy yourself time, you're going to need a ton of cash.
And if you're going to think about saving cash, the one place tech companies literally
incinerate cash is how they do compensation.
And so I kind of think like at some point the next shoe will drop and all of these tech
companies have to really look at stock base comp because they literally incinerate most
if not all of their cash flow fighting the delusion from stock base compensation.
So if you want five or six years to just be in the arena on the field, figuring this out,
you're going to want to kind of be very cash-lo generative and really conservative in
how you spend your money.
SACS, the people who embrace this, I think, become five or ten times more valuable than
the people who are not.
That's where I think the opportunity in the economy is.
So unless you think humanity is going to run out of problems to solve, I think it's going
to be boom.
It's going to be boom town.
And I think people are going to start more companies because the battery to start a
company is no longer three or four million dollars.
You can just have two or three people and you start setting up these agents and man, you
can, it may go software, you can do sales, you can do PR.
Everything is getting faster and faster and faster.
So the time between like conceiving of a product and publishing it and finding a developer,
you don't even need a developer.
You can just publish software.
The wake-up moment for me was we were talking to our agent about, hey, we want to get
this functionality out of Slack and it's like, yeah, Slack doesn't have that, but have
you considered Matterpost.
I'm like, what's Matterpost?
Oh, it's an open source project.
I can spin it up this weekend, export your Slack instance and put it there.
And I was like, I don't do that.
And we were only spending 6k a year on Slack or 10k a year.
But the software is building CRM systems for us.
It's building agents for us and it wants to just build all the software stack.
So you could when you renegotiate with Slack or HubSpot or whatever company you're
working with, you're going to be able to say to them, hey, we could roll our own.
And when you want to upsell us on this latest thing, like you talked about Slack, upselling
as such a big part of SaaS, you're like, I can actually build that software myself internally.
I don't need you to do it.
Ryan Petersen just posts on X Claude for legal seems to work just as well as Harvey
by the way.
Now, the SaaS policy is going after private companies now too.
Well, I think for a while now, there has been a question of which layer of the stack is
going to cap for all the value.
So is it going to be the model companies or could it be the applications that are built
on top of the models or, you know, if there's a lot of competition at both those layers
of the stack, do the chip companies get it all?
I think it's an unclear question, but totally.
Yeah, I think, you know, for any given vertical application, you do have to defend why you
think your value prop will be sustainable as the underlying foundation models just get better
of themselves.
And it's open source.
Like this week, we put up Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Kimmy 2.5.
Alright, listen, this is TBD, we've got a lot more to think about on this topic.
Just on this point of a lot of these debates about AI are doing science fiction narratives.
I just think that the Dumer narratives are inherently more appealing to people.
I mean, I think it's partly just, you look at most sci-fi movies or dystopian, not utopian.
In addition to that, I think we have a bunch of heuristic biases and favor the Dumer narratives.
So one of them is the scene versus the unseen.
It's a lot easier to see the jobs that it already exists that could be obsolete than it
is to imagine the new jobs and the new business models that haven't been created yet.
And that will likely take some great innovator or a genius to think of in order to create.
So we have that huge heuristic bias of not being able to see the creation that's coming.
It takes way less creativity to think about the destruction and then finally, I think,
you know, the other heuristic is just the whole fixed pie fallacy.
Most people do tend to think of the economy as a fixed pie.
This is why you see so much anger against, you know, millionaires and billionaires is because
of this idea that if someone's getting rich, it must be expensive to someone else.
That's not actually the case.
The economy itself could be growing larger as a result of someone inventing something new
that increases production.
It really good line from another article that was written in a couple weeks ago was the economy
is not up a pie, it's a garden and technology is rain.
So again, you know, all of this technological innovation is going to increase the growth rate
of the garden.
It's not a fixed pie and just because you see an expansion and productivity in one part of
the economy does not mean that you're going to see job loss in another part of the economy.
Yeah, I think the job people are not seeing, but I'm seeing right now is the person who
creates agents, manages them and is the micro of the agents, the person who can take
the business process, explain it and train the agent to do it.
And there are certain people in business who are just really good operations, you were one
of them, sacks running companies and like that person who can fire up an agent, train the
agent and figure out how to manage them and figure out how to increase their skills with
any new technology.
It's a great job.
And it's not a developer.
Look, with any new technology, there's always a huge change management aspect with enterprises
because it's hard for them to adapt and change.
And the people in the organization who can lead that change management are the ones who are
going to create an amazing career opportunity for themselves.
But it's hard to do and that's going to slow down the rate of change, just the amount of
inertia in the economy.
And also, one other constraint is going to be that at some point here, we may be token
constrained.
I mean, we may not have enough energy, like we've talked about, even though the chips are
getting so much better, that tokens per second and tokens per watt and tokens per dollar
are all increasing very fast, but we're still going to probably be constrained in the
next couple of years on some dimension, whether it's land power shell or just energy production
or maybe chip production, there are real world constraints on just how fast we can scale
the infrastructure.
And that will mean that these like hyper utopian or hyper dystopian narratives will be wrong.
I don't think there's time in the next few years for the whole economy to change in the
way that the extremes would present.
I think you're right.
I think you're going to see a ten-axing in the demand for tokens, but I also think you're
going to see a 90% price reduction in the cost of an output token, probably by the end
of this year.
I think that to your point, like it's going to just create an enormous up-swallow
demand because we're going to be able to cut the prices of an output token so dramatically.
And I think that's great.
That discussion we had from our last week when we talked about the tokens outpacing
the employees' salary and just where the tokens are all going to come from, that was our
most viewed clip, or one of the most viewed clips in the history of this podcast.
So people are, I can't really focus on this.
I had my team at 89, we did our cost model and now we have that as a line item when
we think about fully burdened costs of employees, we now factor that in because we're
at a place where some of our engineers are just racking up ginormous bills.
And then separately, just general runs that we do for general purpose stuff that we need
to just run our product is it's so expensive.
So I am waiting with Baytid Breath for what's outside, which is like we need an explosion
in the capacity that's available because I do think that the silicon solutions are coming,
that will cut the cost but we need a large block of land power shell ready to then turn
all of this stuff on so that we can actually take advantage of it.
Rumors the new max studios coming will have an M5 chip in it and will be language model ready.
So that's the rumours that they're building it for models so that could be an incredible
turn of events everybody's desktop running the local model sex you want to have the final
word here free or freeberg before we just go back to what Jamoth was saying there I mean you've
got political forces I want to stop the construction of all data centers in the United States.
So it's crazy if that gains steam then that's going to be a huge constraint on any change whatsoever.
Can I keep this up for you J. Calso I went back this weekend and I looked at the number of data
centers that have faced local opposition and whether there were patterns and I posted it on
X or Nick maybe you can put this up but it was really a very small behavior which was
pushing back on data centers and getting them canceled. We had about 25 projects total of which
20 were just in Q2 alone there are a hundred data center projects right now that are facing
some form of local opposition. So interesting. Whereas if you take that 40% number
and you apply this and then you multiply it by the number of megawatts that they have announced
last year we lost almost five gigawatts in terms of cancel projects.
This year coming in 26 we have about seven that could be canceled if you use this map.
If then you flow that through open AI, Sarah Fryer said this that every gigawatts for her
for open AI is about 10 billion a revenue. So if you assume that that's roughly accurate plus
or minus a billion here or there what that means is that 2025 the industry as a whole lost
50 billion a revenue. And this year if seven gigawatts gets canceled it's about 70 billion.
Now you're talking about 130 billion of lost revenue over these two years that will go forward
in time that we miss out on. I think that that's really bad. We need to figure out a way to
nip this in the bud. So confounding because we were sitting here five years ago 10 years ago local
municipalities were fighting and giving discounts to try to get these data centers open to get the
jobs and get the revenue. And now we've got people trying to stop them. This is a perfect transition
for the state of the union before we get there to important programming notes. All in is
going to host two events in 2026. One of them liquidity made 31st to June 3rd in Yon Phil up in
wine country Chimoth is taking control of the event and he has set a standard where who gets on stage.
None of you mids can control the programming. I just said Chimoth came in and he dropped the hammer.
Who do you got so far? You want to tease a couple of people who you invite it to come speed?
I'll tease two. Okay. First is an incredibly dear friend of mine. The acts of acts is
Dan Loeb who found it third point. Who is an unbelievable investor in literally every domain.
Private credit. Public equities. Private tech. He's just the he's just he's just he's just he's
so he'll be doing a really important keynote. He has not done one of these public speaking thoughts
in a very long time. And then the second is the CFO of Open AI Sarah Freyer. Unbelievable star
and we're going to double click into the entire business model of Open AI on stage for the
everybody. So go to all in dot com and then for those of you who plan ahead for travel more coming
more more coming every coming. If you are an all in summit fan of camp, believe it,
freedberg. We're going to be in our fifth year, September 13th, 15th. Only get better. Get better
every year. I'm going to have some good parties too. I mean that back to the future and the blade
runner parties. Those were epic. All in dot com slash events. Hey, can I give a plug to friend of the
pod. Bill Garley. He's got a new is a new book for money down a dream. Please. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Before we start the press. There is running down a dream. I just want everybody to stop the pause the podcast.
I want you to buy three copies. Give it to two young people and a parent. You know this book is
incredible. It's a great book. It's a great book. It really is inspiring for kids and Bill Garley
friend of the pod. He always shows up for us. Jake, I'll do an impression for us of what it would be
like if you and Bill Garley started a podcast together. All right, everybody. Welcome to the JCBG podcast.
I'm your host, Jason Calacanis. And I'm Bill Garley. And we're here in Texas. That Terry Blacks
where we're getting some beef ribs and we're going to discuss in less than in marketplaces,
as well as my new book running down a dream, which will teach your kids how to not be
f*** ups. And if your kids are f*** ups, you can hit him in the back of the head with the book.
Texas that one of the big topics. And I think something you're working on with
President Trump's acts is this energy pledge. I've been seeing rumblings about this explain what's
going on in terms of getting the country in sync around these data centers and energy.
Well, the President announced in the city union last night that he supports a rate pair
protection pledge, which requires the major tech companies to provide for their own
power needs for AI data centers, so that residential consumers do not see their rates going up.
I think this makes total sense. I think Jamoth to your point. This is the reason behind a lot of
the opposition to new data centers is that the local residents fear that their electricity prices
are going to go up. And that shouldn't be the case. And so the President said that he's committed
to not allowing residential rates to go up as a result. If data centers pre-strate forward,
you get the big tech companies, the hyperscalers to pay for the increase in the electricity
costs, or you let them set up their own power behind the meter. The President's been talking
about this for over a year that our biggest AI companies would also become big power companies
because we had let them stand up their own power generation behind the meter. So these
data centers don't even have to connect to the grid. They could just do colocation themselves.
But also, I think that with this rate pair protection pledge, what you're going to see is that
it could actually bring down consumer prices. Because what happens is that when these data centers
then set up their own power and connect to the grid, they can give back the excess to the grid.
Also, they will make investments in scaling the infrastructure. So although electricity is
priced at a meter rate, the cost to generate it are not all variable. There's a lot of huge
fixed costs in there. So when you increase scale, then you can actually reduce the meter rate.
So again, this is really, I think there are a bottle to Bernie Sanders who just wants to stop
all progress whatsoever. I saw a funny post calling it bananas, which is build absolutely nothing
anywhere near anyone. So this is there. It's not just bananas. This is replacing the new nimbee.
So you just can build absolutely nothing. Yeah. I think the process that finds a very good balance here,
which is look, we can have progress. Just don't make residential consumers pay for it. Let the
big tech companies pay for it themselves. And I think you'll see more coming out. It's about this
from the White House next week. Quite a deaf move, freeberg. How should America be thinking about
this great data center build-out energy usage? You know, if you expanded out over the coming
decade and how do you sell that? To the backdrop that you talk about, the socialists move,
but you got a great interview coming out with Ray Dollio on the all-in interview program.
Next week, how do you think about those competing forces? You've got the socialists saying
bananas, nimbee, slowdown, decel, and then you've got this incredible race we're in for efficiency
and this opportunity and abundance. How would you sell it to kind of bring these two sites together?
Or is it just impossible? The data coming in and out of data centers moves it roughly the speed of
light. So you could put them anywhere. And I think that our policy makers need to be very cognizant
of that fact. You have and we do connect the internet using high speed cable, high speed,
fiber optic throughout the world. And so theoretically, if we don't embrace and allow the economic
development of the data center industry and it will fundamentally be an industry because it
is almost like the new sort of oil. Where the oil rigs going to go, where the railroads going to go,
where the telegraph line is going to go, where the factories going to go. If we don't put them here,
someone also put them on their shores, someone also put them in their country, someone also put them in
their jurisdiction and a lot of the economic value that arises from the people that will build
those facilities, the energy that will be installed to produce power for those facilities and then
all of the second and third order industries that emerge as a result of those installations,
that value will accrue elsewhere. Such a good point. So it's not going to like just go away.
The demand is there. The economy is moving forward. AI is moving forward. We live in a world
with 196 countries and data centers do not take up a lot of space. They're very small,
relative to the economic value that they produce. If you zoom out on the map of the world,
all the data centers in the world fit under the tip of a pin. And so this is a very small footprint
and if we're going to give up hundreds of thousands of jobs and many billions of dollars of
the economic value creation, we're being pretty silly and pretty obtuse in our view of the world.
I would just like encourage the system that I think is the right system. When we talked about this
last time, we're provided data centers are producing their own electricity. That means that you're
taking our electricity consumption off the grid because they otherwise are not being used on the grid.
And that will reduce the cost of electricity for other residential and industrial users.
So it's silly to think that we need to put a more Tory amount of data centers. As soon as you do that,
the companies that use data centers are not going to slow down, they're going to go put them
somewhere else and we're going to miss out. And it's such a good point, Shemoth, because you were
recently in the Middle East. And I've been there a bunch in Saudi UAE. These are the folks
who built a large portion of those oil refineries. And they are savvy to this and what are they
doing in Saudi UAE Qatar, all of these regions? They're doubling down. They're 10Xing their data
center bills. So to your point, Friedberg, either we build them or they're going to go somewhere
else. And there are people who are willing to underwrite these and they're willing to take out the
red tape from the process here and move quicker than us. So we, I think this is a pretty deaf move
by President Trump to say, hey, you guys should all just guarantee that consumers don't get impacted.
The water thing is a total hoax, like the water is recirculated. That's a hoax. I think this is
really smart. I think that what the President's doing and what Sachs is doing is really smart.
The thing to keep in mind is that they're still a risk that prices go up and it has nothing to do
with these data centers. And it has everything to do with the business model of being a utility.
Because what happens is, in order to get a license, a monopoly license in an area to provide
energy to generate energy for a community. The exchange works in the following way. You go
and you present a capx plan to the Public Utilities Commission. That's effectively your budget.
That says, here are the lines. I'm going to upgrade. Here are the generators. I'm going to upgrade.
Independent of data centers. The reality is the draw. The electricity consumption of individual
Americans is going up because we have more devices. We have cars. We have all of these other things.
So what we also have to do is we have to look at how utilities is business model actually incentivizes
them to increase prices by making all kinds of investments. So we have to do a good job of making
sure we hold everybody accountable because otherwise what you could see is that the data centers
taking on the burden for themselves. But prices still continue to escalate because a utility
says, I need to spend a billion dollars this year to upgrade my infrastructure. And what that allows
them to do is take that billion dollars and essentially invest it for return. That's the business
model of utility. And this is really happening in blue states. Micron has a hundred billion dollar
mega fab in your and there's a lawsuit by six one two three four five. This is this is a certain
citizens. That's shameful. And the budget has taken 12, 100 days, 1200 days between their announcement
and the groundbreaking. And they spent six hundred twelve days on the environmental impact study.
People wake up, just go to Texas, Elon built his factory here, the giga factory in under like 18
months. This is the creative Texas come here will build it for you. And you'll be done. Yeah,
I don't know anyone bothers with the blue states anymore. They make it to our to build.
It's return. It's so dumb. It's such a self-owned too. Like, don't you want to be part of the
future? You're literally anchoring the entire country to scratch the odd. By the way, there are a lot
of people in New York who want to work. This is not a case actually of this new fab being unpopular.
The majority of people in the area actually want this plant being built. They want the jobs here
and they come there. A lot of people say they don't have some great a lot of jobs. This is actually
a chip fab. So we'll create a lot of jobs. A lot of good high paying jobs. People want it.
Those six people can stop it with a lawsuit after it's not even through a two-year
environmental review. It's not blue and red states. These are nonprofits that get organized to
create this kind of chaos. I remember looking at a massive lithium investment in Nevada.
And the whole point was to domesticate lithium production. And what was interesting is this enormous
deposit that's just sitting there right for development right before they were about to get
environmental approvals are right after. There was a lawsuit by people who wanted to protect
the upper land gross. It's seared in my mind that the upper land gross of Nevada is the reason
why we do not have domestic national security around lithium. And you have to ask yourself,
why is this possible? And it's possible because you have these environmental nonprofits
that can go and create this chaos with absolutely no risk to them. Zero. They can fundraise around it
and they can create this chaos. I mean, Nick to this point, this is an example of Greenpeace.
And specifically here, they were pushing back on an oil pipeline to such a degree and they created
so much chaos that they were sued and north Dakota judge just said that he's going to order
Greenpeace to pay damages that should total almost $350 million in connection to those protests.
And it should not be the case that six people can slow down a hundred billion dollar investment
package. That's not right. Well, I think there's and I just want to highlight this important point.
There's not a lot of logic and reason. You guys are right. But I do think there's a lot of emotion
and there's a huge aversion to big tech, a huge aversion to wealth creation by selecting
individuals, select companies, a huge aversion to economic growth that doesn't benefit everyone.
There's a fundamental kind of underlying left behind emotion that drives a lot of this.
And I've said it before, but I think unless there's systems or mechanisms
that get folks to come along with the value creation ahead and and help them connect their
own lives to the value creation that's being realized, they're not going to be supportive because
there is this kind of diametric opposition towards big tech, towards the wealth gap, towards value
accrual to a select few companies or select few individuals and this fuels and feeds that.
So I think fundamentally, maybe it's not just about giving the data centers their own power
capacity, but there's got to be mechanisms and tools that helps the broader population
understand or recognize or get some benefit from it as well where they're an owner in it
or participant in it because they have the power as we're seeing, they have the power to stop it
therefore they want to have some benefit for providing authority to do it.
And these six people are concerned about housing costs, worker exposure to toxic chemicals,
pollution, air, water, greenhouse gas emissions energy consumption, flooding of the wetlands,
all these things that obviously could be mitigated. All right, let's keep moving here.
We got a lot more docket to get through state of the union came in at 108 minutes.
And that's the longest in 60 years. Actually, the longest since they started tracking this,
the theme of President Trump's state of the union this year, America at 250,
strong prosperous and respected Trump took a bunch of victory laps, inflation jobs,
closing the border, all those have gone really well. But this comes to the backdrop.
None of Trump's approval rating being super challenged. He started his first year at plus 11.7
percent. Now he's negative 14.3 percent, 26. swing, economy started plus 3.4 down to 18.2
and trades are at a 5.9 percent. And we'll talk about the tariffs of later and went down to 22.7.
So let's call balls and strikes here. Gentlemen, favorite moments. What were your favorite
moments from the state of the union in just general impressions of one of our 35 minutes of
Trump going to town? I thought it was great. Favorite moment? Favorite moment or two?
Well, I had a couple. One was the Elon Omar Rashida play Death Stair and then just like losing
their minds and screaming. I just thought it was so un-American. The second was when he was calling
for law and order, where I'm focusing and prioritizing on American citizens and none of the
legal aliens and none of the Democrats stood up. I thought that was kind of foolish. It was like
obvious things and the Democrats wouldn't applaud, but this time they did like they did for the
hockey team, which I thought was like the right thing to do. And then the fourth thing is just the
shout out to our friend Brad Gersner, who got a big shout out from the president. I don't know
sacks if you engineered that or not, but that was fantastic. That was incredible. You got like
a whole shout out. It was like a double tap. Yeah. That was really cool. That was really cool.
Those are my four highlights. Great. Here's your clip of Democrats not standing for
Americans over illegal aliens. If you agree with his statement, then stand up and show your
support. The first duty of the American government is to protect American citizens, not illegal aliens.
Well, I wouldn't just stand for that. That's an easy one to stand for.
Does it make any sense? Would you stand for Chicago?
Yeah. I mean, I'm pro. I can be anti ice, but I'm pro American and I'm pro reasonable
immigration like 90% of the country is. So it doesn't make any sense. Do you think Americans
citizens should be prioritized over illegal? Of course. Of course. Yes. Of course. Yes. And then I
I also think there should be a path to citizenship for people who have been here for a while. And I think
that's what the majority of the people think as well. Your point is, I can hold two thoughts in my
head. So I would have stood if he asked me. Yes. Obviously, we should take care of American citizens first.
Yes. And we should deport violent criminals. We've been over this like a million times here. This is
like consensus in the country. What do you think is going on in everybody else is said when they're like,
we got to we cannot stand for this. These two sides. I mean, I think it's like the terror thing.
It's like the ice thing. These two sides cannot work together. It's just the most polarized.
It's never been Trump is not like the kind of guy to reach across the aisle. The Democrats are
now digging in. So we just have a dysfunctional government where, you know, in a more functional
time period, like under Clinton, let's say, or Bush, people would have gotten together and I'm jumping
ahead to the terror of discussion. And they would have said, yeah, of course, tariffs are done in
Congress. That's the law. Whatever. What are your thoughts, Mr. President? How can we support your
terror program? But now it's like, oh, well, we don't work together. We don't actually have discussions
anymore. There's no bipartisan, you know, collaboration, all these politicians are disgraceful.
The scratchy ought across the board. They should be working together for the American people. If the
president wants to do tariffs, they should be reasonable about it and give him the power to do
reasonable tariffs. And he should be reasonable and say, hey, I understand that's your power.
Let's get together. And we'll chop it up and let's have dinner together. But they're just too
polarized. It's just disgraceful where this country has gotten to. I blame both parties.
Whenever the Democrats get smoked out as being radicals and extremists, you always want to
basically say a pox on both your houses and blame their Republicans and Democrats equally.
The fact of the matter is the president said to the audience, to the members of Congress,
hey, if you agree with the statement, stand up. And of course, every single
Democrats set their stone face and refuse to applaud or acknowledge what he was saying.
This was a very easy test for the Democrats to pass what I just said. In fact, it was what I said.
In fact, it was a political risk for the president because it was so easy for the Democrats to
demonstrate that they're operating good faith and that they're willing to be bipartisan.
And they're not extremists. And they're actually common sense, sickle and logical.
And they completely failed the test. And by the way, it wasn't just on that one. I mean,
me just telling you some of the other ones, where they refused to applaud. So they refused to
applaud the grieving families of innocent American women and children murdered by criminal legal
aliens, including the mother of Irina Zeritzgaya. That was very sad. That was unbelievable.
They refused to applaud for securing our homeland and ending the invasion of criminal legal
aliens, killers, rapist gang members and traffickers. They refused to applaud for
unifying against political violence. So the president mentioned the assassination of Charlie
Kirk. They would not even do a polite clap for Erica Kirk and unifying against political violence.
They refused to applaud for keeping violent criminals locked up. They even refused to
applaud for low prescription drug prices for millions of Americans because it was President Trump
who orchestrated that policy. And there were so many other examples like that. And you know,
I think the reason why this speech was so effective. And by the way, it's not just me saying it,
something like two thirds of the people that CNN pulled. So two thirds of CNN, watchers said
it was highly effective. And something like three quarters of CBS News viewer said it was highly
effective is because the president laid out 80, 20 issue one after another, right, or even 90
tennis shoes, or 95, five issues. I mean, these were all issues where the overwhelming number
of Americans, I think, agree with the policy the president laid out. And in every single case,
the Democrats opposed to wouldn't even give it a polite applause. And that is different than in the past.
And you can say that's because of hyper partisanship and polarization. But it's also because of
another thing is because the Democrats have become a party of radicalism and extremism and the
viewpoints that they expressed through their aesthetics, the other night, they do express those things
in policy and in speeches all the time. So it's not just like a one-off or, you know, somehow,
like, you have a misconception of who these guys are. I think, you know, the big line of the night
was when Trump distorts said these people are crazy. I mean, he said it in like almost
mournful and regretful way. He doesn't want them to be crazy. He wants them to be rational so
he can work with them. I mean, but I think that point wrestling, I'll still point the other side,
which is this has been going on for a couple of, you know, state of the unions here across this
week. The Republicans didn't stand for the Democrats often. And it's a bit of showmanship. But
the truth is, Trump is the divider in chief, chief. He always is attacking people. He's always mocking
people. So they don't want to play ball with him. So I think you think you can both try to
support the Republicans. No, I don't think so. That's actually the, that's actually the problem
with the, that philosophy, Trump's philosophy of, we have to counter punch. We have to attack. We never
have to apologize. We never have to be reasonable. That's part of what's broken down in our politics.
And these two sides should work together. We should go back to what I part of state.
Are you going to work with Delano Omar?
What are you talking about? I'm not saying it's going to be easy, but she said we are a
hold on, I'll finish my statement. You asked a question. I think Trump is the mirror of that.
He has been hostile towards his Democrat. He doesn't give them an inch. They should be more collaborative.
That's what the balance of power between the executive branch, you know, and these, you know,
congressmen and the congressmen in the Senate, that this is how it's supposed to work. And these
two sides need to learn how to get back to listening to each other, understanding each other's
positions and then finding a middle ground. And that's why the Democrats lost last time because they
didn't have the common sense to say, hey, everybody wants the board of close to your point. It's a 90%
issue. And Kamala Harris was too dumb to just say, yeah, we should have closed the border. It's close now.
And we've got it. Anyway, the whole thing is a mess. I understand you got to fight for your
team. You just don't like the counter. You just act to make the key point. You made the key point,
which is underlying the optics and the polarization. You have issues. And on those issues,
President Trump is on the side of the American people. The issues where 80% of the American
people are great. Some issues percentage. I don't know exactly what it is. Things that the
Somali daycare fraud in Minnesota was an outrage. And the president is right to point that out.
And what's the Democrats reaction? You've got Elon Omar screaming from the audience at him.
Yeah, she's a loon. I mean, at the end of the day, they did have, he did have Elizabeth Warren
stand for stopping Nancy Pelosi from trading stocks. And that gave Trump his best one liner of
the night. That was his best one liner, clearly. And they stood for Iran too. And stopping Iran
from being nuclear. I give Elizabeth Warren credit for that. There you go. You don't have to punch
her back. You're a bunch of pop insider trading act without delay. Yeah. See, that's something
bipartisan. Look at that, Zach. That's what you need to get the country back to me. Okay,
that's all on. But this, this just proves the point you were making before. You said that it was
polarization for that. I can't believe Nancy Pelosi stand up. That's why he's so good is he's
in the moment. And he's reacting to what's happening in the chamber. He's not just reading from a
telepompter and he nailed it. But look, that moment disproves where you're saying Jake out because
this is not just about polarization. On that issue, Elizabeth Warren was willing to stand
because she actually took her credit once to ban insider trading by members of Congress.
But on the rest of those issues, like securing the border, she did not stand. Why?
Because she does not agree with the president on that issue. We just have to get back to
these sides working together. That's my personal feeling. Freeberg any thoughts on the
the Attrics and Trump's first year writ large. And the sort of back and forth. And is there any
hope that these two teams could collaborate at some point on something like say the ballooning
deficit, which Trump has not gotten under control in his first year. And it's going to be $2.5
trillion added. What are your thoughts here on them collaborating on anything important,
Freeberg? That's probably one thing they can agree on. It's just keep the money flowing.
Got it. Both give a, they'll both give a standing ovation for burn more capital and put us
more in debt. Well, said, my guy, David, Freeberg, sultant of science. It is your time to shine.
The world's greatest moderator has decided we're going directly to science corner. This is your
time to shine and it's going to access time to drop a juice. That's what I'm going to meet
as well. Yes, he has to drop it here. Let's go. What do you name me for? This is very important for you.
Freeberg's going to talk lightning around for science going to go Freeberg. Wait, wait, are we doing
any more topics after this, or can I just leave? Yes, tariffs. Yes, we're doing tariffs. Why would we
do that? Because I want you to get paid to sleep. I'm not saying science corner doesn't have
its audience. Listen, you can go. I wouldn't we do. Yeah, exactly. Look, you're like screaming.
That means he's worth three. Let him to. Let him cook. Let him cook. Freeberg, tell us about this
Harvard speaking of science. I think that there's a very important moment happening right now.
We've talked a number of times on the show about Yamanaka factors. These are these four
proteins that were discovered by Shinya Yamanaka that we found later that when applied
to cells, mammalian cells can actually reverse the age of those cells. Recept the epigenetic clock,
Recept the epigenome, which is the little markers on top of the DNA that turn genes on and off,
back to a youthful state. Extraordinary ground-breaking work that was done that won the Nobel
Prize led to the foundation of several companies. There's a Harvard scientist named Davidson
Claire. He's a bit of a controversial character. You guys know him. Thank you, guys. One or two
of you may have met him. You haven't met him? Yeah, I followed him. I've seen his stuff.
So, St. Claire is kind of bemoaned a little bit by the scientific and academic community
for being a little too over-hypedy, snake oil salesman as some of folks have claimed because
years ago, he sold a company to GSK saying where his virtual would reverse aging. You know,
he made $720 million on that. It didn't end up working and he's promoted certain supplement
companies and so on. So, I want to preface with that before I kind of underwrite what he's saying
with this next thing. But he's a co-founder of a company called Lifestyle Sciences.
And they've reached a major agreement with the FDA to be the first company to treat humans
with yamanocca factors. Specifically what they're doing is they're going to be delivering
these yamanocca factors. These are these proteins that rejuvenate cells and make them youthful again
into the eye. And so their first indication is to actually inject them into the vitrital fluid in the
eyeball and they'll affect the retina in the eye to address people that have gotten blind from glaucoma
or one of these kind of stroke-like diseases that happen in the eye. And the expectation
with this phase one clinical trial is that the delivery of these yamanocca factors into the eye
will rejuvenate the retina, make it youthful again, and restore vision. If it works,
which it's expected to, because we see this result happen in animal models,
it could be an extraordinary breakthrough, not just in terms of blindness, but in terms of the first
human application of yamanocca factors to reverse aging. The way they're doing it
is they're actually packaging up DNA that will make these proteins into viruses, an AAV virus,
that is delivered into the eye. The virus will then go into the retinal cells, and then we'll
deliver this payload for this DNA to make these proteins in the eye cells. And it can be turned
on and off amazingly. They've created a switch mechanism in it where the protein production, the
production of these yamanocca factors, can be turned on and off by taking an antibiotic called
docs recycling. So the person that gets the delivery of this drug takes the antibiotic turns
on the production of these yamanocca factors, and then theoretically their eye cells will be
aged, will get youthful, and their vision will be restored. So phase one clinical trials underway,
first time in human history, we're seeing yamanocca factors being delivered into humans.
Literally the tip of the iceberg, there are now over a dozen startups that are trying to deliver yamanocca
factors, which are these proteins, or some other sort of protein that can actually reverse
aging by restoring the epigenome and cells and make them young again. So this is the beginning
of a wave of what I think will be the most extraordinary revolution in human therapeutics,
and ultimately could lead to, you know, some people would argue the fountain of youth.
Is this just a talk study? So is there a mechanism there? Well, they'll see results. They'll see
results, but they're going to keep dosing low, but you will see results. God, that's going to be
incredible. It's going to be incredible. By the way, the number of other folks that are gearing up for phase
one, using, if not the yamanocca factors, other factors that they've identified or designed
as an alternative to yamanocca factors, again, to rejuvenate the cells, and just to remind folks
the way this works, is it was discovered that these proteins, when they go into a cell,
they take all of those little markers that sit on top of your DNA, the turn genes on and off,
and they create a system that causes them all to move to the right place. So it resets the
markers so that those cells will start to operate like they're supposed to when they were young again.
It's going to be incredible. Yeah. Do you think like people, you know, in all
certain people's needs or joints or where do you think it could flow to next? Yeah. And by the way,
when applied, and if it's distributed in the skin, they've seen some results in monkeys where like
wrinkles go away. It literally makes these cells all work youthful again. And so a lot of the
damage that happens over time is not damage to DNA. It's damage to the epigenome. It's the parts
that sit on top of the DNA that turn genes on and off, and they get moved to the wrong place
as you get older. And by resetting them and getting them back to the right place, boom, the cell
is young again. The organ is young again. And suddenly you look and act and feel young again.
It's an incredible technology. We're just at the early stages, the early innings of turning it into
therapeutics. Again, the discovery goes back to 2006. And now we're starting to see it get into clinic.
All right. So let's rejuvenate some hairlines on this podcast. That would be next up. Speak for yourself.
I don't know. You got a little, you got a little peeks going there, my friend,
brother, a little peek. What are you talking about, bro? My hairlines is incredible. 150. I mean,
it's not bad for 50. I'm going to get the credit. You're doing your whole thing you're on.
All right. Let's talk about our final topic. Scodes struck down, Trump's emergency powers,
tariffs last Friday. Scodes voted 63 against president, Trump's e-pa, tariffs. Six judges voted
against three conservatives, Roberts, Barrett, Goresich, and three liberals, via Bloomberg.
This is the biggest review of existing executive policy in 91 years. And Scodes struck down
FDR's first New Deal in 1935. You, Pat, Martin analysis says the tariffs collected about 175
billion today, 50% of all tariff duties might wind up being refunded. This is going to take some
time to sort out on the courts. Two thousand reporters have already filed for refunds. We talked
about it here. I think the majority of people felt like this is the way the decision would go.
And we talked about here that there were other options for President Trump to pursue.
He immediately said he was not deterred and invoked a 15% global tariff across the board by
section 122 of the 1974 trade act. Here's your polymarket. Will the court force Trump to refund
tariffs 18% chance, but spike to 40% after the Scodes decision. How are Congress reacts?
Polymarkat says 3% chance, Congress passes any tariffs by March 31. So again, as I referenced earlier,
these two sides just can't seem to work together. And that would have resolved the whole thing.
Sachs, you want to give us your take care? First of all, I don't think that the tariffs are going away.
What the court basically indicated, especially the 70 page cabinet descent, is that there's
multiple alternative bases in law for the tariffs in existing law. So for example, section 122 of the
trade act of 1974 enables temporary 150 day tariffs of up to 15% to address balance of payments
issues. And the president has already invoked this. So we are now operating under that. What the
150 days is going to do is buy the administration time to substantiate buy a studies and agency
reviews. What it needs to prove in order to invoke more sweeping tariff authority under section
301 of the trade act and under section 338 of the tariff act. Section 301 authorizes
tariffs responding to unfair foreign trade practices. Section 338 of the tariff act allows tariffs
against countries discriminating against US commerce. The cabinet descent actually provided a road map
for the administration to put in place tariffs using one of these alternate bases. So I think that one
way or another the tariff policies of this administration and the favorable trade deals that they
allow to strike with many nations, they will continue. And I think the court seems to know that
because the majority's opinion as concurrence is collectively said nothing about how the
administration should go about refunding the tariff revenue already collected. I think that if they
expected this decision to end the tariff policies altogether, they probably would have said something
about that. And I think that brings up a really important point just on the merits here, which is
why would we want to give back hundreds of billions of dollars to a bunch of importers when we're
trillions of dollars in debt? And I'll just say that the people who originally predicted that
somehow these tariffs would be catastrophic for the economy, those predictions all prove not to be true.
So I think that this is ultimately I think going to be a popular policy. The administration will
figure out a different way to do it and I predict that future administrations, whether they're
a Republican or Democrat, will keep some version of the tariffs in place, but I think that they
will be ultimately popular on the long-standing basis.
Tramathy or thoughts? I think we've proven the experiment has been successful.
What was the experiment? We needed to smoke out what the right balance of trade should be
between the United States and all of its partner countries? I think that what we uncovered is that
for the most part, they were structural imbalances that were made not because they made economic
sense for America, but it was just part of a hodgepodge of globalist drivel that people just
bought into. And if you strip all that stuff away, we had a hollowed out manufacturing class and we
have a hollowed out middle class. And the tariffs will create more equality for the American
worker in the end. So now I think the debate should be about how to implement these in a structural
impermanent way. I think we talked about this before, Jason, that this was sort of expected and
there are many other mechanisms. I think the president activated one of them immediately.
I don't think this is going away and I don't think it should go away. So I think now the point is
Congress really should ratify these things because it is clear that it was the right thing to do.
And if they don't, then the president still has a lot of room to get these done. But these
makes smart economic sense in my opinion. Freeberg any thoughts on the ruling? Does it give you
some, I don't know, respect for the courts that they made a judgment not a long party lines for
once? Is it? Yeah, okay. And I think that all, I think all Americans should feel assured and comforted
in the fact that I think a lot of people view the Supreme Court as having a high degree of
partisanship. The fact that the president, despite having a majority of what others would think
were kind of politically aligned appointees on the court had a ruling that he did not want.
I think should give everyone good faith that the system that the founder set up is working, that
there is a judicial branch that adjudicates the law against the executive branch when they think
that it doesn't map. And I think that that was very important to see. So, you know, I clearly,
the debate about tariffs, the economic effect of tariffs, the security, structural trade relationship,
effect of tariffs and the importance of that is a separate conversation. But I do think that the
read of the law being what I would say is nonpartisan with respect to the court's action is
important and probably very valuable. I'll reiterate that. This is a great moment, I think,
for the Supreme Court to make a thoughtful decision. And I think we need to think about executive
power a whole bunch, whether it's Biden with student loans or Trump with tariffs.
We have this beautiful system set up by the founding fathers. I know it's frustrating,
gridlocks frustrating, having to work together is frustrating. Trust me, we all come to this
podcast every Thursday. We have to work together. It's hard to work together. It's got to
learn to work together and we don't want an executive branch that can unilaterally just roll
over the other branches. And that's going to end. I think Trump's going to lose the midterm,
so we're going to get to work chaos again. And we might as well start this reconciliation process
of these two sides stopping their law for again, see each other and working together for the
American people on the important issues. The tariffs, there are some fundamentally important things
that Trump was doing there. And they were working. They could have been chaotic. That's a reasonable
criticism of them because business owners didn't know what to do. So Trump did it in
chaotic way. That's just the fact. You should have done it in a more thoughtful way. And the
Congress should have been alongside him saying, hey, what tools do you need? How can we help support this?
We know that there's trade imbalances. We know that people are being unfair. Let's work together
as one America to negotiate these things. So both sides start having dinner together, start
playing cards together and do what we do here on this podcast, which is you're fighting out. You
argue, but then you come together and try to find some resolutions for this stuff. So they
should go and tell Trump, hey, we'll approve all the tariffs you did. We will not force you to get
refunds. The Congress should come around and just say that. And then they should say, hey, and when
you want to do them in 2026, just run them by us or ask us for some parameters that you want.
And let's just be thoughtful about these are our concerns. That's it. Thank you for coming to my
talk. I just want to make one. I mean, do you think Susan Rice is going to respect
your call for comity and basically working together? Come by y'all. I want to be a free
decor. No, I don't. I think both sides. And this is not a diatribe where she basically said that
Republicans and actually not just like partisan Republicans, but even tech companies that merely
were working with the administration should expect to get prosecuted. I mean, she's basically out by saying
she and the Democrats are going to pursue law fair as soon as they get back in charge.
They're absolutely going to do that. Just like when Trump got in, he went after comity.
He went after Jerome Powell. The law fair is happening on both sides. Both sides need to drop
the law fair. We need to get rid of these partis. They're ridiculous. And we have to be a team.
So let's just get some a spirit of corruption team we're going in Washington, D.C. And that's
what we should vote for in the midterms. We should vote for moderates who want to work together
and in 2020. We should have some kind of moderates and tickets that want to work together.
That would be better for all Americans. This kind of chaos is not good, folks. All right,
listen, there's been another amazing episode of be all in podcast. Your favorite podcast.
Like subscribe, whatever the hell you want to do on your own time.
Four, David Sachs, David Friedberg, Chamapile and Hoppetea. Love you, boys.
I am the one on the greatest moderates you can. See you next time. Bye bye.
Besties are gone.
We should all just get a room and just have one big huge door because they're always useless.
It's like this sexual tension that we just need to release now.
You
