If we're going to recreate school, that's going to get our kids ready for the AI and
going forward.
First principles.
What would you do?
The first thing and most important, which is the most radical, if we say, is
U.S. high schoolers at our historic lows in reading math and science.
Americans today have perceived college as far less important.
Today, college graduates, they're the longest being unemployed.
That's not sustainable.
We've known for 40 years.
How kids could learn two, five, or ten times faster.
Unfortunately, it doesn't work in a teacher in front of a classroom model.
We've really figured out how to use technology to deliver these really incredible learning
results and do it in a fraction of the time.
Is everything perfect?
What do you guys worry about?
I love what you're doing.
I just don't understand what's the flip side of the equation here.
You know, the biggest issue now that the moon shot, ladies and gentlemen, everybody
welcome to moon shots.
Today, we're going to be speaking about the future of education and the role of AI in education.
And this is not just for K through 12 universities.
It's also for reskilling, right?
Something that this rapid pace of AI is going to require every major company to start
doing soon enough.
This is a topic that we've been very outspoken about here on moon shots, specifically
how secondary and post-secondary education is failing us.
It's failing our kids.
It's not preparing them for the near term, let alone the medium term horizon.
We're going to be diving into a new education model called Alpha Schools, a fan that's
gotten ray reviews and discuss the pros and cons of AI-driven education.
Today we're joined by the leadership of Alpha Schools, McKenzie Price, and Joe Lamont.
McKenzie is the co-founder and CEO of Alpha Schools.
It's a K through 12 program built around a two-hour learning model that she helped to
pioneer.
Prior to Alpha Schools, Price was for 17 years in the lending business and also working
at Trilogy, a Stanford grad with a degree in psychology.
She began questioning traditional schooling when she saw her own kid begin to lose enthusiasm
for learning.
I'm also proud that McKenzie is an abundance 360 member.
All right, and Joe Lamont is the founder and CEO of ESW Capital and Trilogy, a billionaire
entrepreneur who is actively playing a central role in funding and scaling Alpha Schools
and playing the role as the principal, which I find incredible.
He's built this fortune by buying and systematizing software companies, a playbook he's
now applying to education.
So, first off, welcome McKenzie, welcome Joe, good to have you guys.
Thanks for having us, Peter.
We love talking education, and you're excited to be here.
And of course, guys, I've got my much smarter, much more brilliant mood shot mates, Silly Miss
Mayo, and DB2 guys, good evening.
Welcome, welcome to the party here.
And let me start by saying thank you for your service, because you don't see a lot of highly
highly successful people turning back to work on K through 12 education.
There's no real big money in it, and it's purely a work of good in the world.
So thank you so much for working on it.
Yeah, for sure.
What I'd like to do is actually kick off by sharing a few slides that show the state
of education in America today.
And it's not that great.
So, let's let me share these here.
So, here we go.
This is unfortunate and very shocking.
So, US high schoolers at our historic lows in reading math and science.
Only 35% of seniors in high school 12th graders are at or above the reading
proficiency level.
This is down from 40% in 1992.
Only 22% of seniors are math proficient.
And only 31% are proficient in science.
And this is going into a world where math and science and reading is so
fundamentally critical for us.
On the flip side of secondary education going towards college,
here are some other numbers that are seriously troubling.
And these blow me away, but they're very real.
So, Americans today have perceived college as far less important.
So, back in 2010, 75% of Americans thought that college was important for your kids.
That has dropped down from 75% to 35%.
And as a result of this, we're beginning to see college is going bankrupt.
At the same time, tuition has grown 893%
since 1983, as we demonetizing and democratizing everything else.
The cost of going to college is going up.
And then here's the killer that today college graduates
are the group that are out of jobs the longest.
They're the longest being unemployed.
And so, for me, that just cannot, that's not sustainable.
I mean, Joe and McKinsey, you want to lean into those challenges right now.
I don't know where to even start other than it is a very disappointing picture.
And half of seniors in high school today graduate,
knowing as much math as a 99th percentile third grader.
And that's a pretty troubling statistic along with what's going on.
But I think it really points to the fact that schools aren't preparing people for
the near future, as you mentioned.
And more importantly, what this world is going to look like with AI.
And it's even more critical that in addition to making sure that
young people have academic knowledge in their brain,
to be successful and be great critical thinkers,
we have to instill all of the other life skills that are going to be needed so that they can
be adaptable in this new world and be able to keep up.
And not just keep up, but stay on the frontier of what human knowledge is required.
And we see this with parents all the time.
Parents are coming to us with their little children saying,
what in the world should school look like in this day and age?
What is it supposed to be delivering 10, 15 years from now?
And that's the challenge that Joe and I are excited every day to take on.
You know, the data shows that at Alpha School,
you're able to deliver a full academic program with only two hours a day of academic education.
I will talk about the life skills portion in a moment.
And that you're educating your students.
I think it's like two and a half to three times faster.
And still score, I mean, the one top, the one percent top two percent of the country.
And I looked at some numbers here and it shows that on average SAT scores,
Alpha School graduates are at 1410 compared to the national average at 1,024 roughly four
or points lower.
And that puts Alpha School graduates in the top 94 percentile.
Actually, I'll correct you on that.
1410 is actually the average for our entire high school student body freshman through seniors.
Our average SAT score for our seniors is 1535.
And the reason I think that's important to say isn't just to brag on how awesome our students are.
But really, to show and highlight how easy it is to excel when students get a mastery-based
kind of tutoring experience, which is what has been made possible in this model of education.
We believe any student is capable of being 99 percentile when it comes to reading and writing
in math and science and being able to crush your APs.
And of course, the beautiful part of it is, it doesn't take all day,
change to a desk plus hours of homework at night in order to get those results.
We've really figured out how to use technology to deliver these really incredible learning results
and do it in a fraction of the time.
Yeah, so back to scores and economics and the two hours,
and I will as the principal was just in the meeting this week where they were taking some
practice tests, the freshman, and the freshman's goal this year is to have a minimum of 14-10
as their SAT score is freshman. So we have somewhere already over 1500 as freshman,
which you can think about when you talk about, wow, think of how much time that opens up for the
rest of what they want to do during high school. But aside from that, how do we do it?
You know, we've known for 40 years how kids could learn two-five or ten times faster.
So there's a whole field of learning science that very few people know of,
but it's been around for 40 years, you know, the graduate school's education of Stanford or Oxford
or Harvard have been studying this, how kids learned and develop papers back when I was in high school.
Blooms to Sigma is a seminal paper where, you know, the paper talked about how kids could learn,
all kids could learn and get to the top two percent, every kid, which you're seeing that data
in Alpha, you know, sort of 40 years later. And so what we've done, you know, and the reason
it hasn't been implemented though is if you read the papers, you know, there's probably 10,000
of them that have been published, you know, over the last 40 years. They all say,
kids can learn this fast, unfortunately it doesn't work in a teacher in front of a classroom model.
That's incredible. And the, because that's the sum of, yeah, well, it's what every parent,
you know, one of the things I've realized, you know, after I became principal three years ago was
every parent wants their kid educated the way they were and we don't know any different.
And when I sit in the room with some of these learning scientists, you know, they will sit and
said, we've known for 40 years teacher in front of the classroom is the worst way to teach kids.
And I'm like, whoa, we like the people in this room, right? Every parent in America thinks a teacher
in front of the classroom is the best way to teach kids, right? And it's, it's that dynamic fundamentally
that, you know, we have to educate parents on and show that this new way, right, that is grounded
in learning science, right? We've known how this works. We know the, everything from the best ways
to teach to the chemistry of the mind, to be able to do this. And for the parents, it's, it's
what they knew, it's how they grew up, right? Yeah. So you get this cascading generational effect.
Joe, I've heard you talk about what you call the five dimensions that make a school 10 times better
than at least the schools that we all went to school. And if you could recount that, because I found
number one, the idea of being able to make something 10 times better is something you typically don't
think about in terms of schools. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, back to, when the kids in our
work on this, if, you know, you sit down and you say, the school's been the same for over 100 years.
And if we're going to recreate school that's going to get our kids ready for the AI age going forward,
first principles, what would you do? Just ground up what are the core things you'd really want to do.
And so the first, the first and most important, which is the most radical, what we say is
kids must love school, right? If we're going to put our kids in it for a decade plus,
it should love school. And we actually measure it where over 90% of our kids love school,
you know, we measure every week's, we ask them. And over the last year, we actually uptit where we
actually say, would you rather go to school or go on vacation? And 40 to 60% of our students say,
they'd rather go to school than go on vacation. To be, a lot of it depends on what the vacation is,
depends on what the workshop they're doing. You know, the highlight of my 10 years principle was
this before summer, you know, six months ago, the two thirds of the Alpha High students sent an
email and said, we don't want to take summer break. Can you keep the school open? And back to
we all know, I didn't like, I was, you'd never catch me at high school asking if I could go to
summer school. And so, but that principle and just talking about love of school, you know,
it's one where when you think about it, like when we all build businesses, you know, just
for the business world, you want to build an organization that people love to come to work for,
right? Yet those same people when they sit and look at their kids and say what school's supposed
to be like, you're not supposed to love school. It's supposed to suck, right? Schools, but you
spin it. It's not supposed to be like, we have this mental model that for everything else in our
life, we're like, yeah, you totally should build an organization that people love, right? With school,
we just had this, this backward way of, of looking at it. So that, the first principle in the core
and the reason we work is because of that core principle. And when we talk to other schools about
adopting this, you know, they all ask about the ed tech. Oh, you have this engine that teaches kids,
you know, so much faster. And we stand up and say, look, if you're not willing to rebuild your
school around the concept that kids must love school more than vacation, this isn't going to work.
Right? And that core principle really, really matters. Um, and that's what sort of everything that
we do is downstream of that. That's an incredible achievement, by the way, congratulations.
Yeah, that's statistics are mind blowing. Everybody, you may not know this, but I've been an incredible
research team. And every week, myself, my research team, study the meta trends that are impacting the
world. Topics like computation sensors, networks, AI robotics, 3D printing synthetic biology.
And these meta trend reports, I've put out once a week, enabling to see the future 10 years ahead of
anybody else. If you'd like to get access to the meta trends newsletter every week, go to dmnds.com
slash meta trends that's dmnds.com slash meta trends. It's, it's actually when you think about it.
If you step back, they'll, you know, we spend an enormous amount of money on educating kids.
Like, you talked about how people don't go into a business, but we spend over a trillion dollars
for K through 12. Right? I mean, we're spending 20,000 plus a kid, you know, some cities spend over
40,000 dollars of student. And if you think about it, you're like, okay, I got to 10 year old.
And you're going to be 20, great hand. And I have to educate them,
educate them, and they can love every day. That's actually not the hardest problem in the world.
Right? That's a lot of money where you can actually build a day to have them both love it and learn.
So, loving school is the first dimension. What else you all know is that?
The second one is kids should learn 10 times faster. So, back to this whole concept, and this is where
sort of I got in is, you know, we sat down and built this engine over the last three years,
where we basically took all the learning science, and we took AI tutors, not chat bots, and we
can get into why chat bots are cheap bots. And if chat, GBT in schools is terrible, you know,
but if you take AI, generative AI, and you take learning science, and you generate personalized
lessons plans for every kid at whatever level they are, those kids can learn 10 times faster.
Did you build or buy that tech? I'm curious. So, we started by using off the shelf apps,
and then building around it, right? Sort of this AI wrapper around everything, and we can talk of how
to do it. We now, for the most part, we have both sort of the foundation, this platform,
called Time Back, and we use some third party apps that are best in class, so for any of you
listing, math academy is the best app, and you can just go download it. It's awesome.
If you actually care about learning science, math, the math academy way is 500
action-packed pages of all the concepts of these, you know, 40 years of learning science that you
should read. And that they're a great team. We love to partner with them on it. We built a bunch of
our own own apps, alpha-right, alpha-read, et cetera, that's sit on the platform as well.
We put it over $100 million into this platform, so it's a big lift on being able to do this.
But what we have today is a learning engine that teaches kids basically K through 12
10 times faster than if they sat in class. Okay, you got to love it. It's 10 times faster.
What you hit number three. And then the second part is, you know, you come into school for two hours,
right? Because we don't, you know, we learn over two X and two hours. And so back to what matters
is then what do you do the rest of the day? Because parents don't want you to send the kids home,
right? Two hours have got to be the old day. And so then what do you do with the rest of the day?
And it's you teach them all these valuable life skills that we all think are important for the future.
Because academics is not enough to get your kid ready. And so we have our alpha life skills curriculum,
which is leadership and teamwork, right? Storytelling and public speaking, entrepreneurship and
financial literacy, socialization and relationship building and grit and hard work. And so in the
afternoon, you're getting all these killer workshops, right? Team-based, super fun workshops,
run by adults, right, in this environment that are teaching them all of those life skills.
To get them ready for the real world. And that's where if you see all the excitement and why we
get so much hype besides the academics, you sort of see what these kids do. We have kids, you know,
we have fifth graders, you know, running food trucks and running Airbnb's for their entrepreneurship
or workshop, right? And just all these crazy, took TED talks, right? Just we have a, we have an
alpha-high student who actually today submitted a research to nature, which no high school student
in history has actually been published in nature, you know? And so just crazy, great accomplishments,
because they have this awesome, you know, afternoons to work on. McKenzie, you know,
can you like dive a layered deeper for moms and dads and kids watching this to like,
you arrive at the school? And what's the experience, what's the experience like?
Can you sort of paint the picture for us? You know, it's such a great question because people just
don't understand what a school looks like where kids actually cry at the end of the week saying,
why do we have to have breaks on the weekend? You know, I can't we go to school seven days a week.
They just don't understand. And I think people often think, okay, this is some AI school. It's like
Robo Terminator, dystopian, you know, anti-socialized children and nothing could be further from the
truth. In fact, what's happened is the model of the day is one where kids get so much more
timed, interact with each other and to interact with the adults that are in the school,
building because of how we've said it. So, you know, you walk in the school first of all, it feels
more like a we work space than a traditional classroom. One of the things, you know, Joe and I both
bonded over our mutual dislike and disdain for traditional school. And so, we think again,
school should be a fun, exciting place that comes in. And the part that, yeah, the part that you
didn't like about traditional schools were what, teacher and the front and everybody's a desk.
You know, for me, and I think, I think, Joe and I were similar, I was always wondering, like,
how is whatever I'm learning going to relate to something I'm actually interested in doing? Like,
where am I going to make, you know, use for this in my life? What am I going to do? And it was just
so boring. I just found it incredibly boring. And I also think school is fundamentally
traditional schools fundamentally a place where they are teaching kids to sit still, raise their hand,
don't talk unless called upon, ask permission to go the bathroom. And, you know, it really
hasn't changed that much. And what we're wanting to do at our schools is teach kids all these
awesome life skills. And that starts with, you know, you walk in at the beginning of the day,
and our kids all come together and they do what we call a limitless launch. Think Tony Robbins
for kids. This is a chance when they get together and they'll do some sort of challenging,
often physical sort of experience together. And it's when we start incorporating some growth mindset,
strategies and practices that they take into the rest of the day. Then they go into their
two-hour core learning block. This is the academic period of the day. And this is when kids are on
computers. The key difference here from when people think of, you know, COVID Zoom classroom time
is that kids are getting this one-to-one interaction on the computer that's meeting them at the
level and pace where they're challenged. They're in what we call like the zone of proximal
development where it's the lessons that they're getting aren't too hard that they turn off and
not so easy that they're sort of bored and disengaged. Throughout that time, they take breaks
every 30 minutes. It's time to stretch and play and be a little bit more flexible with kind of
what their best learning environment is. And by lunchtime, they're finished with their academics and
the rest of the school day is these super fun workshops. And so that's everything from, you know,
five-year-olds who are learning how to climb a 40-foot rock wall or swim in the deep end of the
pool to high school students that are out building real businesses and, you know, doing big things.
And there's just so much energy there. And that's what we found is so cool about this kind of
this opportunity that kids have to get more socialization and time with each other. And one of
the things Joe mentioned in those first three pillars of what we believe makes a school ten times
better. The fourth pillar is actually what enables us to deliver all of that, which is,
we have transformed the role of the adult in the classroom. Instead of having to spend their time
creating lesson plans and delivering lectures and grading papers and homework, which we don't
even have homework, by the way. Our teachers, we call them guides. Their sole job is focused on
motivational and emotional support. Basically, holding kids to really high standards, saying,
like, hey, you are capable, you can do big impossible things and providing the support and the
mentorship and the coaching that these kids need to be able to do great things. And so that human
element has been able to be put really front and center. And that's what helps us make sure that
kids are loving school and learning twice as fast in two hours and developing life skills. And then
that leads to sort of that fifth pillar, which I think we all as parents can relate to.
Ultimately, what we really care about is our kids growing up to be good human beings. Do they have
character and integrity? And so for us, that fifth pillar is character and culture and classmates.
Who are these kids being raised to be and who are they surrounded by? And that sort of ties
everything that I think makes the culture at Alpha so attractive to so many families around the
country is, you know, when you can combine phenomenal, you know, kick-ass academics along with
developing these life skills. And then do it in a nurturing caring environment where things like
socialization is actually practiced and coached on as opposed to just saying, hey, we hope you survive,
you know, the mean girl cafeteria world, you know, eventually get through. I think that's kind of
what we've done and those five pillars is what, you know, every day, everybody in our organization,
you know, wakes up saying, how can we make sure that Alpha is a 10x better experience and really
redefines what parents should expect out of their kids school? Dave, I see you, itching for a question
here. I'm really, I want to visualize even better this idea of a we work looking school because
you know, music just jumps out of me immediately. You see all the little chairs lined up with the
little folding desk and the lecture and the front and you've got rows and rows and rows of these
rooms in any school middle school or high school. And it's all wasted space. And now you're saying,
no, no, no, get rid of all that. Now, make it feel much more like a work environment. But imagine
it's not like our office, right? It's probably somewhere in between because it's got to be more
school like, I mean, I think it's picture like a really comfortable environment. In fact,
I was in our kindergarten and first grade classroom at one of our schools this morning. And you've
got some kids who are standing at a, you know, a stand-up desk because those are some of
the kids who realize they like being able to just move their feet as they're doing their work.
You've got another group of kids who are sitting at a table and there's a guide sitting right next
to them and they're working together. And my favorite, and I always see this when I walk into
one of those classrooms, you'll see some kids who's like laying on a bean bag with this
feet up against the wall and he's got his computer on his laptop. And you might look at and go,
what's that kid doing? And I'll tell you what he's doing. He knows that he can get his work done
and he can hit his goals. And he's kind of earned that privilege of being able to relax. And that's
another thing, you know, motivation is is such a huge part of our culture at Alpha. And we built
in all these different motivation models to help kids be successful. And that can be everything
from earning the privilege of getting to do your core work in a little tent for it, you know,
or a cubby thing with stuffed animals surrounding you. So it's just kind of fun. I think it's
really, it's the kind of school environment that again, when we kind of are saying, we get to
reimagine what education looks like and what school looks like. Let's build a school from the
ground up that just is a place where kids want to be, right? We're asking kids to spend a dozen
years of their life most of the time in a place. And it should be something that feels nurturing
and caring and inspires just curiosity and exploration. Not one of these, what I honestly think
so many schools are just depressing, right? So from the outside in, does it look like any other
school with fields and, you know, field house, locker rooms and all that? And then you don't
notice the difference till you get through the door? No, I would say we're still a little different
on that. You know, our schools, we've opened schools all over the country and the way we've started
this because again, Alpha is such a foreign idea and concept to so many families. They need to see what
it is. So we've opened schools up throughout the country. We've started them small. You know,
so we'll have, you know, schools with 25, 50 kids that are in that, you know, you get a playground,
you know, kids need to be outside. In fact, our students get, you know, an hour and a half of just
non-structured outside playtime every day because that's something really important to have.
But yeah, it's not quite the traditional thing. And the same is true with the way we do our
workshops. Like, for example, you know, I was at our middle school this week and they're doing
an incredible band music class. But they're creating a rock band and as part of that, they're also
learning about marketing and branding and mixing music in addition to playing instruments.
You're not really going to walk into one of our schools and see kids all playing the recorder,
you know, as part of their traditional music class. I see a lot of our, you know, when they reach
college, you know, because I teach at MIT in a little bit of Harvard and it's Stanford and
the kids that go to school in England arrive a full year ahead of the US educated kids.
And they can use that to take basically either a year of tuition back in college, you know,
just getting advanced credits or they can start a company while, you know, take a semester or two
to start a company or just the extra time is worth its weight in gold. So if you start talking
about, you know, 10Xing the rate of learning, I imagine, and you know, 1400 SAT scores of freshmen.
I mean, you got to figure your, you're in that same. Maybe even a year ahead of that by the time you get to college.
Yeah. When, when you think about that time for sure, two points. One about your England comment.
You know, we have the, what we consider the world's best team of learning scientists who work for us.
And what's, you know, very amazing is, you know, most of them come from England rather than the US
that, you know, and the, you know, in England, the academics actually have been going like this versus
the US like that. And a lot of it's like these, these, these people from this team, you know,
who have been for 15 years, you know, making sure that those concepts were put into the curriculum,
which is why they're, they're ahead, you know, we're now putting it into our platform. So everybody can get it.
But that, that concept of just having lots of extra time, you know, in our high school,
you know, they spend, our, our high school is a little different in that you spend four years
working on a passion project, right? So you have four, you know, when you, if you're going to come
down with a high, it's not because you want to be quarterback of the West Lake football team, right?
You'll go to West Lake if you're, if you're going to do that. But you're going to come because
you have, you want to say there's something I want to work on, right, that I really love. Now,
they change their mind, their kids, right? And then they, you know, these, these ideas change.
But can you imagine if you said I had four years to work on something I really loved and get really good at it?
And so we do, we have, you know, we have, we have one of our seniors who's putting on a Broadway
musical, right? And it's going to be the first all team all produced, you know, musical. And she's
spent, she, everything from, I have to source the singers off TikTok to music right, right, to how
you fill a whole venue and all the sales and marketing. All of those things was she took her,
okay, I love, I'm an arch theater girl, right? And now has had years to actually work on it,
you know, as she loves. Can I dive into a little bit about the guides, all right? So you don't call
them teachers, you call them guides. And I'm curious how you source them, right? Super excited that
Alpha is going to be opening up a school in my hometown, Santa Monica. How do you go about
sourcing your, your guides? What's their background? Talk a little more about their, their mission.
Are they just not traditional teachers, whether the top teacher someplace else?
Let me, let me get my handle around that. I'll, I'll give you from the business that aspect in and then
and McKinsey can talk on the other side. You know, the the biggest issue back to scaling schools,
schools don't scale because you're limited by teachers, right? That's always the, the critical aspect.
And so when I first looked at the teacher problem, you know, how are you going to be able to scale this,
you know, the, the, the five things of what is required for a great teacher in a traditional
school, not us, is you have to be a domain expert. I'm great in seven grade science. You have to be
good actually in teaching kids, right? And, and, you know, not just a researcher, the third
dimension is you have to connect and motivate students, right? The fourth is you have to be good with
parents and the fifth depending on the organization administration, right? And, and so you look at
that and sort of outside of the business world, you ask an HR guy, 101, he's going to say,
that's a complicated spec, right? Those are different skills. It's hard to have all five skills in
one person, right? That's a, that's a, that's a hard spec. And so in our, in education, what we've
decided the way we solve that problem is to underpay them. You know, and then we're like,
oh my god, no one applies for this job. It's the hardest spec in the world that we're going to
underpay on. And, you know, like, well, this, you know, and so, you know, fresh that eyes coming in here,
if we're going to rebuild this, you know, every HR guy is like, well, simplify the spec or pay more,
or both. And so, what alpha that's what we've done very much in our model is those first two items,
which is seventh grade science expertise, or how to teach it to kids, the 10,000 papers of learning
science of the best way that instruct kids, we don't need because the AI tutor right our software,
time back software does that for them. The third dimension, you have to connect and motivate kids,
you have to be the world's best, right? We push that to the max. So if you look at our students,
you know, a great book that, you know, I don't know if you've Dr. Yeager's 10 to 25,
how to motivate kids from 10 to 25. This is psychological motivation, right? Correct.
And he has this concept of the mentor mindset, which is teens need high standards and high support,
right? And so he actually has developed our training program for our guides, right, which is,
how do we have guides who are able to hold high standards for kids, but also provide the high
support to get them there. And so you have to be the world's best. And so about what is it,
McKinsey at the last count, it was like half come from traditional teaching background?
Just about half of our guides come from a traditional teaching background. And these are generally
people who were, you know, phenomenal, love the idea of working with kids, but, you know,
realize that, you know, that traditional system is just built to fail on there. But we get people
who, we have a guide who was the principal of the year in the state of Florida in 2020. And after 14
years working as a principal, she was attracted to come back to Alpha because her desire was to get back
in the classroom and, you know, impact and interact with kids. But in addition to that,
we get the majority of our guides come from different backgrounds. They, you know, wouldn't have
been interested in a traditional teaching world, but they were experts in motivation. They come from
professional and college level coaching and athletics. Because think about how much motivation and
life skill development is taught through sports. In fact, that's the way most of us got a lot of our
life skills development growing up. They come from corporate backgrounds, executive backgrounds.
What they all have in common, though, is this idea of like, okay, I want to be able to positively
impact and motivate and connect with kids and serve as a mentor. And then, of course, to Joe's point,
we've taken the opposite strategy as traditional education. We believe that anybody
who is going to put their blood sweat and tears and working with, you know, this next generation,
they deserve to be paid well. So our guides start at six figure salaries and that's part of what
is enabled us to really attract incredibly talented people. And I will say our process for
applying to be a guide at one of our schools is it's very challenging. I mean, we really have a
high bar for who we want to be impacting and mentoring. That's really fundamental, though. That's
like if you said, so in any given high school or middle school, you're going to have a math teacher,
an English teacher, a history teacher, and they're branding. Their personal branding is tied to
this very narrow kind of topic. And so by throwing all that out, of course, you're going to get
much better standard in terms of the other baseline, the motivational skills and everything else.
So is there any concept of a specialist at all across the guides or everybody is so really?
Yeah. So just to put some numbers behind it, right? We had 80,000 people apply for our teaching
roles, right? So in our world, we have just, you know, how many guides for school? And so
and this is where to answer that second follow-up question. At the kindergarten level, we actually have
five, six to one ratio of student teacher at Alpha. And the reason for that is that's the one place
where our apps aren't fully developed, which is bootstrapping kids into reading.
It's still not there. And so when you talk about specialists, we still have reading specialists
to make sure kids get bootstrapped. Once you can read, I can teach your math. I can teach
you all the other subjects. But the, basically, the detection of a four-year-old, the AI's are good enough.
Yeah. You know, we think we need another 18 months before AI's condo. So that'll crumble too.
That's interesting. Well, but let me just show how five to six to one. Oh, good. Yeah.
Let me add a mom's perspective in here. Because in addition to reading, think about, I mean,
you guys all went through this with your kids. Like kindergarten, we want our kids to feel loved
and welcomed. And we want kids who come into school curious and excited to maintain that. And we
believe having these awesome adults who are, who are, you know, supporting these kids and helping
them do big things. You know, our kindergarteners learn how to ride a bike and do a five-mile
bike race as a team together. And, you know, as there, you know, I was just, I was just talking
to one of our guides who was talking about a kid. It was really feeling challenged around riding a
bike. But this guide knows that he loves animals. And so she has a stuff kangaroo. And she runs
alongside of him and says, can you go faster than the kangaroo? Now, by the way, our guides are having
to get their exercise points in, you know, on that too. But that's the other thing that's just so
critical is, what is the point of school? In addition, obviously, education and socialization and
relationship building, we need these adults who are kind of mentoring. And one of the things I'll
bring up Dave, when you were talking about specialists, the other fundamental skill that we have
to learn how to teach young people is the ability of learning how to learn something. And when you
talk about kids who are going off and building businesses, you know, in fourth grade doing jewelry
making businesses or building mountain bike parks or Broadway plays or mental health apps,
how in the world would you find a specialist, you know, who's an expert in that, you know, as a,
as a teacher. Instead, our guides also have that skill of, you know, what? We're going to come
along side each other and we're going to go learn how to become an expert in that field. We're
going to learn how to connect you with experts in the field. Actually, today, I spent time with
two of our high school students who are meeting with a really successful Hollywood producer
who was connected by the school to give these kids some mentorship around, you know, movie production
and marketing. And that's one of the skills that our guides are really good at is saying, okay,
I can connect with a kid, see what they're interested in, and then help them go figure out how
to go become an expert and jump in that field. So be careful, because we'll probably be reaching
out to all three of you now, or mentorship and connections with our students.
And I'm sure I'm qualified. So Liam, you're the one you're ready. And then the other, the other
part of our model though, as you get older, we increase the ratio. So, you know, and you guys have
14 year olds who said, you know, by the time you're adolescent, you're like, whoa, you know,
there's too many adults around here, give me some space. And so we actually on the business model
side, we take that money out of the guides and we put it into these workshops, right, these crazy
afternoon workshops that they can go do everything. But if you also think about motivation, right,
and these alternatives, right, we have X athletes, right, I have X NBA assistant coaches,
Germano Niel is teaching a middle high school program, right, and you're just like,
one is, I mean, those kids hold one, because motivation is so important, right, they'll do anything,
right, with these sets, we've X Olympians, right, sets of coaches and athletes who are able to connect
with these kids and provide that motivational, emotional support that you really want.
And that's a lot of the magic that makes this work is making sure you hire those, which is
why we pay more, why we built our business model around doing it, and source 80,000 of them,
you know, to find the right ones. So that gives you a real head start on what's coming, too, because,
you know, the whole college curriculum at MIT moved online years ago, and it got off to a
fast start, but then a completely fizzled and the reason it fizzled is because it's so insanely boring
to learn on your own through a browser. But what's coming next is the interactive AI version of
that, and it's going to have exactly your favorite personality on the other side. So, you know,
right now, when you talk to your high school math teacher, the person is who they are,
they're not your perfect soul mate to talk to. The AI version of it, it can be any voice,
any personality, it could be, it could be Shaquillo Niel, you know, reincarnated as a math teacher,
whatever, it's going to be so incredibly engaging, and it's not quite ready yet, it'll be there
within a year, but you're going to have such a head start having seen how these guides interact with
the kids who are just, you know, the most naturally engaging people on the planet and seeing the,
the motivation that that creates. So that'll match the AI version that comes on to that two hours
a day when they're in front of the screen. Yeah, we have one where our middle schoolers are allowed
to pick their avatars. And, you know, so for history, like, or an AP world history,
they're all like, okay, Genghis Khan, right? Yeah, it's going to be my avatars. And it yells out of them if
they're not studying, right? And the kids are like, okay, we love this, they pick it. Yeah,
you know, actually, I met with a couple of MIT junior or sophomores today, actually, that
we're saying that the Taylor series is now taught, my Taylor Swift.
And right, you got a real kick out of that. It's like, okay, that's kind of cute.
They're her avatars. And it suddenly knows how to do do. I've, I've, I've, like, a thousand,
I've, like, a thousand questions here. But let me kick off a couple of one is when you hire a
creature from the traditional side, there's obviously a transition period to kind of operating
in this new modality, what's the average length of time that does that take? Well, you know,
one thing that's interesting, the last step in our hiring process, when they've gone through
a series of interviews and tests, everything from cognitive aptitude tests to case studies and
having to design workshops, the last thing that they do is they spend time in one of our schools
shadowing and basically working. What's really interesting about that is once they get to that point,
the most common reason for falling out and not getting hired is actually traditional teachers.
And the reason is they're not willing to jump in and engage with the kids kind of get at their
level because traditional teachers are so used to kind of standing forward or standing back and
sort of pointing, do this, do that, you know, and being here. But for those traditional teachers who
do make it through our process and come into our school, we've got some really great training that
they're able to jump into and just being a part of being willing to jump in. And so that's
everything from designing the limitless launch activities that we do in the workshops. And the other
big thing is helping them remember that their job is no longer to teach academic. So if you walk
into one of our schools, you're not going to see one of our guides sitting down and showing a
kid how to carry the one, you know, or what to do. Instead, they're going to be helping kids
again develop that skill of learning how to learn. So they might say, hey, did you check your resources?
We're able to find a video where you reading the explanation and they're really working to coach
on that. Now, they're also focused on motivation. An example of that, we just, um,
today in that kindergarten classroom, I was watching a couple of kids when they would hit one of
their academic goals. They would give a secret signal that the guides are watching, touch your nose.
And that would signal, I hit one of my academic goals and then that starts, get ready for it,
a silent dance party. And that is a five-second dance party where the the guides would do this and the
kid would do it. And then that was enough to get that kid psyched up and ready to say, okay,
let me go hit my next goal. And it's just those little things that they can do. And then the other
part of it, Dave, that you mentioned about how much more engaging, you know, um, personalized, truly
personalized learning with AI can be. I just want to take it also to what it looks like when you walk
in a classroom, you can walk in a classroom and have two seven-year-old boys sitting right next
to each other. But each of them is working on something that's exactly at their pace. So for example,
you have one seven-year-old kid who's doing algebra while the kid right next to him, his friend,
is working on his multiplication tables. And that's the beauty of personalized learning. It's not
isolating. It's not making that kid have to march up two grades, you know, to go sit with older
kids or even worse being told by the school, you just need to chill out a little bit. You're too
advanced. They can keep going and yet be right next to each other doing that. And then having that
collaborative environment, I also have to say the the roller coaster that the kids incorporate
when, um, when a kid hits a big goal, the whole class does a roller coaster ride, which, again,
looks a little like this. Those who are not listening on video are missing the magic of
this being credible. But that's the thing that these guides are so good at doing is figuring out
what is that motivation. And that's everything from the silent dance parties to the fact that we
pay our students' alpha currency and teach financial literacy concepts for hitting goals.
Of all of that is really going on. Entrepreneurship developing self-driven learners. Yeah.
So so then what happens? What's the impact of that on the peer pressure? And everything I see in
schools, you're either care about your grades or you don't. And there's no, there's no, no room
in between. And if you're near the top of the class, you get into this group of people that are
really competitive about their GPA. And those are the ones that end up going to MIT and Harvard.
And then you're like, oh, I can't compete on that. So I'm completely competing on the basketball
team. You know, I'm going to put all my energy into that. It's really sad, actually, because
because of most of these kids would be graded both. But the basketball coach cuts them from the
teams. So you're not, you're not allowed to excel over there. And then the math teacher
only cares about the top five students every year. And so you don't make the mind share the math
teacher. And everybody ends up bucketed in very irrational ways. And that peer pressure is just
pathetic. But it must be completely different in your school. Yeah. On the academic side,
this is the difference between a time-based system and a mastery-based system. So all our kids
right, master their grade level of material. So they get hundreds on their standardized tests.
Right, for each level. And so if you actually, this is back to this dichotomy as adults,
because of our system, we see the world so differently. If you ask out for parents and say,
can you get a hundred on the, you know, in our case, the Texas star is the state standardized test?
You know, fewer than 10% of the parents were like, yeah, of course, you can get a hundred on the
Texas star. Only, you know, GT kids, right, that kind of thing. If you ask the alpha students,
95% say you can get a hundred because they have. Right, which is, in a mastery-based system,
you don't move up to the next grade level and to your master, right, what you're on. And the
tutor is going to sit there, right, the system's going to give you the personalized lesson so you can.
So all our students know they can crush their academics in two hours. It's also a function of
when you have, when your classes are all top 1% of a grade level every subject. All the students
are like, oh, I can absolutely do well academically. And so back to the competition, you know,
it moves it in a, in a, in a time-based system, right, the two things that determine academic success
in the standard school is, it's IQ coded and it's big five conscientiousness coded,
are you a grinder, right? And those are the people who do naturally well, right? And that's 10% of
market, right, 90% of the kids don't. In a mastery-based system, everybody can. And if you ask your average
alpha student, it's not about IQ. It's about effort. You know, and that's why we call our
software time back where it literally tells the kid, you're 17 hours away. Right, you're five hours
away. And so it moves everything from, I'm not smart enough for I'm not capable, which is so,
right, debilitated, right, that's such a bad model that we just inflict on these kids to, oh,
okay, well, I'm five hours away from mastering it and getting 100, right? And that's just a huge
unlock around self-confidence in resilience and all that. And once again, can't do a teacher in
front of a classroom. I love this. I just want to say this for everybody listening here, you know,
the traditional school models are you start school at 100% score. And every time you get something
wrong, your score goes down. In the traditional video game models, you start at zero score.
And every time you learn something your score goes up, it's completely different motivational
system. And if you can tap into that as long as well as, you know, what you said earlier,
the best video game designers know how to just come in at that perfect level of challenge and
frustration. Yeah, that's great. If you think about learning and you think about this engine,
because it does, everybody's like, oh, these AI tutors in their table. And, you know,
you can imagine generating personal lessons for every kid that's based on, what are you trying
to teach them? What is their knowledge graph? What do they know and not know? What is their
interest graph? Right? This is back to your, oh, Taylor Swiss, my interest graph or Gagas Conner,
whatever it is, right? And then actually, you can actually take into a cognitive load theory,
which is actually the chemistry or brain, how many working memory slots you have, how many reps you
require to store the long-term memory to, you know, change your schema. And the AI can generate
a personal lesson for you that makes sure it's at 80 to 85% accuracy, right? Not too easy,
not too hard. 99% you're not learning, right? It's, it's you already know it. And every game
designer will tell you if you drop below 66, the kids disengage because it's too hard. So you can
just imagine this unending stream of personalized content, right? For every kid right at their
zone, and this is why you can learn 10 times faster, you know, and we do with what do you do with
kids that are somewhere auditory listeners, some are visual learners, etc. How do you navigate
between the different learning styles that different kids have? Fundamentally, you know, in learning
science, right? There's dual coding, which is it is better to get it both visually and auditory at the
same time, right? So even though internally, you think I'm a visual or I'm auditory, the actual
science will show it's better to give it both at once. And so, kind of, even though you have a preference,
right, you need the reinforcement of both channels at once. Let me ask some of the difficult questions
that you probably are asked. So you're asking parents to trust more screens in the classroom
at the same time that there's a backlash going on for screens with kids. So what do you tell parents,
you know, who don't want their kids on computers all the time? And then are you able to
enforce sort of a distraction free use of their laptops? So their kids aren't going off to play
Minecraft or or some other video game. Yeah, those are super valid concerns, screen time and,
you know, bad screen time, even AI and bad AI. So these are all super legit concerns by parents.
And, you know, here's how we look at it. And please, parents who come in, you know, how they look at,
which is we believe there's good screen time and bad screen time, which is if you can learn 10 times
faster, right? Then, and it frees up the rest of the day to do all these great workshops and life skills,
it's worth that trade-off, right? Even if you don't like screens and their parents at Alpha
who would say, I'm a no screen time household and they're like, but if my kid can actually learn
the academics in two hours instead of six and get that afternoons to do all these great things,
that trade-off is worth it. That would be sort of dimension A, dimension B is to that point of
AI, you know, if you give kids chatGPT in a school, right, 90% of them use it to cheat, right?
Chat bots are cheap bots and so unmanaged AI is bad, right? And so we don't have in our mornings,
we don't have chat functionality enabled. Like, even in our world, we've tried and even our best
kids, they all use it to cheat, right? And you're all just, so we have to imagine that people
people pre-conceived notion of Alpha School is using ChatGPT in school as a mechanism for learning,
but it's not. So when a kid's on your platform, they're not able to go to Gemini 3 or
Grok 5 or whatever the latest is and are they disallowed from going and playing their favorite
video games as well? Yes, you are. And so when you talk about chat functionality, what we tell the
kids is, if you're using Chat in the morning, you're probably cheating, but if you're not using it
in the afternoon on these life skill workshops, you're probably failing, right? The students are trying
to do a musical needs help, right? So it's that dual sense that they have to have of that.
But for putting facts ideas and concepts in kids' brain, ChatGPT sort of steals that away from the
kids and you want to fill kids with ideas. Now our AI uses basically there's two dimensions of the
AI use. One is generate the personalized lesson, right? And so it's the generative part of AI,
it generates a dynamic lesson for the kid. Now, the second part of what it's doing is the vision
models. So it is watching the screen coaching you. So one of the things that's doing and it's
actually the more expensive part, like we basically stream the screen to a soda model. We spend
like 10 grader to kid right now in AI tokens because we're doing this because the AI is watching
the screen and it's saying, look, you know, you're scrolling, you're guessing the answers or
when you miss the question, you're not listening to the explanation and you're just trying to
drive the next question without listening. And so it's coaching them into good self-driven learning
habits. And the core of this and this is sort of a key and why EdTech isn't the solution for you.
We talk about EdTech's like 10% of the answer, which is, you know, everybody says to educate a
kid, you need a motivated student and you need to put them in lessons of the correct difficulty,
not too easy not to work. EdTech does the second really well, but how do you do the motivated
student part? For us, it's give the kids their time back, right? Where you say, look, engage in it,
once you finish the lesson, you get to do the workshops. Well, if you're not using the apps correctly,
right, if you're skipping or guessing or, you know, doing any of these anti patterns,
you're not going to finish in the two hours, right? And so we literally have a waste meter in the
corner where it's like, dude, you're wasting 50% of your time. That's mind blowing. Those vision
models only came into existence, maybe a year ago, and you've already got them employed. That's
incredible. We kid is a lot of token usage though. That'll come down a factor of 10, but it's impressive
that you're, we're going to get down to it on device. But that is our end to be honest, like three
years ago when we started when I became principal, we literally had humans reviewing the video at night
annotating. Like, oh, wow, this is, these kids aren't learning, because you have to train models,
just like the, you know, Tesla, you know, auto-packed. Yeah, of course. You have to train this model up of,
okay, this is good learning. This is bad learning. What are these kids doing? Oh, wait, they're switching
to another screen to ask chatGPT, oh, wait, they're playing Minecraft. And so all of those things
were monitoring those. And, you know, our, our unit of measure is XP, right, whichever video, right?
Yes. One XP is one point of learning. Yeah. One, one, one XP is one minute of, of learning. And so
the kids know that AI is deciding, was this a minute of focus learning? Okay, you get credit for it.
Yeah. So, I mean, that's, that's, I mean, just to make an analogy for the audience here. Like, if you
have ever coached soccer or football or tennis, if you just imagine, you could look at every single
kid and study every footstep they take and say, oh, wait, that step to the right should have been
a step to the left, but you're in their AirPods telling them one on one coaching of every single move,
that team will just take off. And that, the, the vision technology to actually do that through AI
with the AI looking at every single motion. That's brand new in the world. And it would work in coaching
just as well as it works in screen monitoring for teaching. But I can just completely see how like
every single action in the learning experience is now a measurable piece of data that can be
personally analyzed. And it's brilliant to me that you actually had human beings trying to do that at night.
That must have been the most glorious thing in the history of the world. But that's how you get a
head start into knowing how you're going to deploy it with AI very soon thereafter. That's just
your system and put it into a traditional school and see how much time is being wasted there.
Yeah, the 90% is being wasted. I can tell you in any school, 90% is wasted, right, for sure.
That's, that's for sure. But back, and then just taking that last part that you were talking about
the data, what we have now and why are learning keeps increasing is we have the, we're the only
ones in the world with a closed looped data site. It's a, it's reinforcement learning for kids.
It is. And so our, our learning science team comes up with an idea and they're like, okay,
let's implement this new idea and see, they put it in right, generate their lessons. The kids
do the lessons. You measure the learning. It was this a better way to teach the kid in this particular
kid or whatever. And then they can see the scores based on standardized test results and then
adapt to the learning. And so to give you a concrete example, so in August, I student front of all the
parents, I'm like, we got a new math curriculum K through 12. Kids are going to learn more in
20% less time, right? We made improvements. It's going to be 20% better. And eight weeks later,
at the end of the first session, I got up. I'm like, okay, good news and bad news. 4 through 12,
we're crushing it. We're above our thresholds. We're beating the 20% metric K through 3. We're not.
The kids are getting lost, right? In the past, we gave them too much freedom, you know,
freedom of choice got too much. So we're going to be changing that and changing that for the next
eight weeks, right? And I can tell you now, it's where back on track on that one. But that kind of
science, it's learning science, it's a little science. Yeah, yeah, how do it's learn?
It's identical. Peter and I went to one X Robotics to interview Bert Bordenic and he had the exact
same thing for the robots that are in the home. They gather every single motion, all the data
comes back, gets transmitted into a nightly, you know, learning process that retains the model.
So you've got the exact same thing in education with, you know, probably more kids robot.
Well, you know, when we podcasted Eric Schmidt, he said, you get these loops, you know,
Google learning loops, yes. But this is a perfect example of one of Eric Schmidt's learning loops,
where the model will improve with that data. And Dave, you were talking about sports. And
think about how much time is spent studying game film to see how you can improve. And that's never
been done when it comes to learning in academics. It's like, again, just hopefully you're good at
school or you're not good at school, you know, and that's where we be. And we actually give kids
the coaching where they learn, you know what? The best way to go forward is actually to slow down,
read the explanation, watch the video, and then take your time to, you know, look at the question,
you know, before you go answer it. And that's part of what really puts learning in the
kids hands and gives them a sense of ownership over it. And they start seeing, you know, what?
I can get better. I can do better. I have the agency and the ability to improve if I put in the
work and the, and the good practices. And again, that completely changes the way that a kid sees
himself. And that's really the magic. This episode is brought to you by Blitzie, a autonomous software
development with infinite code context. Blitzie uses thousands of specialized AI agents that think
for hours to understand enterprise scale code bases with millions of lines of code. Engineers start
every development sprint with the Blitzie platform, bringing in their development requirements.
The Blitzie platform provides a plan. Then generates and pre-compiles code for each task.
Blitzie delivers 80% or more of the development work autonomously, while providing a guide
for the final 20% of human development work required to complete the sprint. Enterprises are achieving
a 5x engineering velocity increase when incorporating Blitzie as their pre-idea development tool,
pairing it with their coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI native SDLC into their org.
Ready to 5x your engineering velocity, visit Blitzie.com to schedule a demo and start building with
Blitzie today. When I want to hit on some psych emotional side, so I mean, some kids,
in particular, I think male teenagers probably need more scaffolding than others.
How do you think about that? The other side of the equation I want to ask is how do you measure
levels of stress and the psychology of the kids to provide feedback and safety?
Scaffolding first and psychological side of the equation next.
Yeah, it's interesting from a scaffolding perspective in this way, the earlier that we have
kids come into our system, the better we can build on those habits. But you take, as you mentioned
the teenager, you get a kid who comes into us in middle school or high school, and they've had
years of conditioning in the traditional model, which is B passive, sit back, wait for someone
to give information to you, and then move along whether you know it or not. Which is the worst
place to be in life, right? It is actually the worst place. Yeah, and so there are some bad habits
that kids have picked up. But here's the good news is you can pretty quickly put kids into a
situation where they're suddenly in a culture where they feel a sense of ownership around the
culture and where they've got adults who are you know practicing this mentor mindset with these
kids of saying, hey, you were capable of doing big things. You may have thought in the past that
you weren't a math kid, right? You weren't a good at science, your dyslexic, and therefore
reading will never be your thing. That's not true, and let's put in some growth mindset,
let's give you some training around receiving feedback around, you know, being able to connect
and do that. And so they get that help, and then when they also are met with the level in pace,
and you know, here's a pretty scary statistic that I think it makes most most parents kind of
blood turn. We brought hundreds of students from all over the country into our alpha school that
at the beginning of the school year, and as part of their onboarding, they do assessment, so we can
figure out where they are. And Joe stood in front of our parents at the back to school academic
90s said, guys, I got some bad news for you. This will be a little hard to take, but basically
we looked at where students are, and we compared them to their transcripts from their previous schools.
And here's what we found, if they were an A student on their transcript, you know, in math
class, for example, they were anywhere between one year head and three years behind in their academics.
If they were a B student, they were between three and seven years behind, three to seven years.
And so here's the other part, and Joe's a, Joe's a pretty forward principal, he said,
your schools have been lying to you. You know, gone are the days of teachers giving out season
days because, you know, what? Parents don't pay $40,000 a year to send their kids to schools where
they get season D's right? Where should they don't get the grades at all? They get, they get sort of
a written evaluation, and then like, okay, I need some objective measurement is, is my kid doing well or
not? And they don't, they don't give that out. Now, here's the next part that Joe said,
as he said, here's the good news. It's not going to take years to catch up. We're going to go
and we're going to fill in some holes, give some personalized lessons that that gets you caught up,
and you can do that pretty quickly. And going through that exercise, which by the way, it sometimes
takes a little bit of motivation right, modeling to get these kids excited about going back and
revisiting fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade to catch up, but they do and that kind of changes.
And then on top of it, when you think about kind of mental and emotional stuff, you know,
all of our students every week, they get a one on one, 30 minute meeting with their guides.
Every single week, they're getting that connection. And did you know, the average amount of one
one time in a traditional school with a teacher in a student, 22 seconds a day? That's it.
And we may get those, those 30 minute times, it's that stuff. And here's another thing that's
really interesting. We have an important in our school where kids can take the Alpha
currency that they earn for hitting their goals. And they can buy stuff. It might be a Lego set
or stickers or snacks or you name it. The number one most popular item in the Emporian is a special
lunch with their guide. Kids love that connection in that mentorship. And then the other part of
kind of coming in is a middle school student or a high school student, you know, we are really
serious about creating a culture where we're helping students understand that they can be
creators and contributors, not consumers. And when you think about what society does, it naturally
pushes kids into the consumer mode. Scroll TikTok all day, watch you to play video games and
listen. We spend time helping our kids see one, what are their values? What are their talents?
What are they interested in? They go through an e-key guy values workshop that they then do a
workshop where they spend 168 hours of their week tracking, right? How do they spend that time?
And what are they actually doing with it? And pretty soon, our guides are worrying with kids
to realize, you know what? Instead of playing a video game, why don't you go learn the vibe code
and build a video game and then host your own tournament instead of scrolling TikTok, build an
audience that's promoting a message with a great, you know, app that you've built. And we find young
people want to step into that role. And we just need to help make that possible. I love that as a
result we see. Yeah, we see. And when you have that sense of purpose in that culture and
students who are uplifting each other, we really have found that that's been a pretty good
cocktail for, you know, healthy, healthy lives. One of the things we see a lot is when you try
anything disruptive in a legacy environment, the immune system attacks you. So are you getting a
tack by the legacy system? Well, you know, this is one of, I've been trying to figure out,
can you convert an existing school or do you have to be a new school like Alpha? And the answer is,
you know, I've talked to, you know, the heads of some of the, you know, top 10 private schools in the
country. And I'm like, here's the difference. If you hear this pitch and you like it, you come to
the Alpha Infosession, which is why there's a thousand people at New York's Alpha Infosession,
because, you know, people want this new thing. All the people who don't like this message,
stay at your school. And so, you know, there is, for sure, a set of people who are like,
I don't want that. And it's, it's too full of what it is. There's a set of people who are like,
I want it, but somebody else has to be first, you know, that everybody wants to come to an
Alpha and as we open up all these new cities, right? One of the things you realize is,
once Alpha has a hundred people, right, that everybody wants to come. Let's talk about what
you want to be the first 20. Let's talk about that. That's the key. Let's talk about how you get
your schools open. So you're opening one in Santa Monica. You've just opened one in Santa Barbara.
So your typical, you go out and you find a real estate location, you're, you're finding some place
that is enough interest that you've assessed. So you have a density. And then Mackenzie,
you're looking at an opening class of what 25 to 40 typically. Yeah, in general, we're calling
these kind of micro schools with about 25 students is the start. And then one of, there's one of
the things you mentioned to me is one of the advantages, if you're like a founding family,
is, and I love this idea is that you can actually help create the opening class,
right? You can get your kids best friends in there and you can select. I mean, I think half of
education is who you go, who you go through the educational process with, right? Are they people
holding you up or pulling you down? And I think this is a good one and I'll tell them Mackenzie,
this is the Mackenzie story, which is, you know, when she was co-founding Alpha, she woke up and said,
I want to go find the 20 people who are going to be surround my kids, right? And I was actually
unfortunately, I, I was a laggard. It took Mackenzie two years to convince me to come down for.
No, because I was like all the other parents is my kids, I went to Catholic school, didn't
really like it, you know, almost expelled, because I skipped school all the time, you know, dropped out of
college, but my kids were doing everything pretty well. Sure, sure, but you know, my kids were going
to Catholic school and she's, I was like, this is such a weird school, like so weird, right? And
but she woke up and is what we would now call a founding family, right? She found it out
but in every city, you need the same thing, because just because Austin's going well doesn't
mean Santa Monica, Santa Barbara, San Francisco, New York. They want to be like, this one is it.
And so the more of growth is going to a city and finding those first set of families who are like,
yes, I'm in and I'm actually going to go recruit the other families because it is, right,
it is one where parents want to see, okay, it's working for your kid, okay, I trust it, right?
The, I always say the two things parents need to move a kid from their school is they need a
reference from an adult they trust, a parent they trust in their city and they need to see a kid at
the school do something their kid can't do, whether it's love of school or academics or
life, because whatever they care about, they have to see those two things and when they have the
two things, then they'll move. Do you use a franchise model or do you attend all your own schools?
So to we for alpha, it's a hundred percent us, we run it, there's no franchise, this is work,
a hundred percent charge of the quality control, you know, but yeah, but the second part of it is
alpha is the high-end private school, we design this when we said what are we doing?
It's prices no object, right? It's expensive, it's the high-end private school, how would you rebuild
education? Now, with this time-back platform that we're building, we're building a whole set of
other schools based on it, which will be different model. So we've launched Texas Sports Academy,
right, which is the afternoon is all sports. We've launched gifted talented school,
which is for the kids who love academics, when you say what would make you love more school
they're like more academics, and so, you know, those kids are learning like five X learning,
they'll be 1500 by, you know, eighth grade. And so you have different ones we have a wilderness
school, right? So you can, we have a Montessori school. So you can imagine all these different
models that as soon as you have this magic of two-hour learning, you can start to say
what should we do in the afternoon? And so next year in 2026, you're going to see all these other
models beyond just alpha that roll out based on this time-back software.
And look at your vision, the reaction of the authorities and government departments of education
and that whole legacy side. Yeah, your public school, I'm going to be doing this for 20 years,
McKinsey's in for 20 years. The public school side I think is going to be like the second decade.
Not the first decade, which is we're doing a lot, it's all private, right, it's with the
there's a whole set of schools, the Texas sports academy is using the Texas vouchers, the
billion dollars, they just allocated where it's $300 a month parent paid. So bringing the price
way down from an alpha. And so right now, you know, this is a private model. And we've tried on
the public side, McKinsey applied for 10 charters, in 10 states, for in-person charters, zero, rejected
10 times. One, one, we got air. One virtual, but you got an air result, you got a virtual
not a physical, which is physical school, you know, the school boards literally say things like,
I was put on this earth to stop people like you. Wow. And so that's what I talk about when I say
the immune system, the good legacy for likes. Yeah, for sure. And so, you know, for us, it's, you know,
the back to the thing, the private school markets of $50 billion market, right? And so it's a big market
and for those parents who want to opt in, you know, it is radical, you know, so they, they can.
We'd love to move into public as soon as they want to invite us, but, you know, on charters,
we just said, we, we know we're not wanted here. So whenever you want us come call us, but otherwise
we're done applying for, you know, charters. And I think Celine, what we see is we've got a lot of
interest from the public education sector, you know, the Secretary of Education came and spent the
day at Alpha and Texas in September. We get people kind of are inspired, but it's really the idea
of, can you really change the whole model of the day, right? If, if academics only takes two hours,
what do you do with the rest of the school day? And are you willing to change that rule of teachers?
And all that. So I think right now, part of the reason we get a lot of attention, we are probably
the most talked about school, you know, in the world is because we are sort of serving as inspirational
ideas for what's possible. And I actually love that part of it. I'm getting parents who reach out to
me who have implemented a lot of what we do in their homeschool environments, you know, or taking
pieces of that. And I think, you know, eventually it'll get there, but right now, you know, our plan
is to build the private distribution model at varying levels and price points, you know,
still delivering the academic excellence through the time-back platform and the life skills
development. And that just can be done in different ways. You know, at Alpha, our students will learn
adaptability and teamwork by doing a sailing workshop where they eventually sail from Florida to
the Bahamas, you know, over five days. But, you know, what else you can do, you can get incredible
life skills development by letting kids get out on the sports field, you know, starting at noon instead
of it for a clock and giving them time-backed things. So there's a lot of things.
Everything perfect. What do you guys worry about? What keeps you up at night? What are the
problems that are having? I mean, you know, I don't want to be in, I listen, I love what you're doing.
I just don't understand, what's the flip side of the equation here? Here, well, flip side is,
your average parent, when hearing this, think this is fully wacky and must not be true.
So, you know, educating parents that this is actually this new model is not fake and false
and a hoax at all of that, you know, is a huge lift, right? You know, our marketing department
is, you know, our schools educate kids. We have to go educate parents because every parent
literally thinks the opposite. That's one. The part I, as principal, is, how do I scale
with keeping quality? Right? So, every time we open a new location, every time we open a new,
have a new guide, how are we making sure that you're getting that same level of love of school,
right, academic performance, the life skills? You know, we spend a lot of time like when you
talk about life skills, we teach grit. What does that mean? Right? If you can't just read a book,
the answer was book, and do I go, oh my kid, that's grit, right? We have to be able to say
our third graders in Santa Monica and Austin and New York have grit. What does that mean? What's
the test of past? Right? What is our, you know, alpha surf, right, that we have? And so we spend a
lot of time making sure that we're building this for scale, right, and making sure that, you know,
every third grader can do a Rubius Cube. So we're like, oh, that's a good, you know, proxy for grit.
And so the, the, the scaling part is, you know, critical. The other is our cost, right? I'm
spending, I'm burning 10 grand on the AI. I got to drive that down. So tomorrow is somebody flipped a
switch and said, okay, everybody, finally, every parent wants it tomorrow. You know, we couldn't
fulfill it. You know, we, we, we got to drive that, that curve down to make that work. And then the
biggest one that I think to hit scale, building schools and rebuilding from scratch is, you know,
I got 20 years. So we're going to build 10,000 schools, you know, and that's going to be great,
and I love it. But how do I get to a billion kids, right? How do we drive this out to a billion
kids? And if motivation is your number one issue, right? This engine parts easy in the scheme of things.
How do you motivate kids when you don't own the school day? Right? The biggest motivator of a kid is
giving their time back. So if I have six, and I give you four hours back, I have the most important
motivation. But for the billion kids where I don't control their school day, right? And they're not
going to give it back to me. They're not going to read structure of their school. We still have to get to those kids.
And we have to motivate them to do it. And so you're going to see where we've actually
were partnering with some of the best motivators in the world to figure out how do we package
up both a motivational component with the learning component. So we have some of the world's best
video game designers that that's going to be released in 2026. We work with some of these biggest
influencers, right? And packaging all this up where it's a bundle, motivation, plus the learning,
and that is hard. There's a big lift there, right? So have you talked about? Have you talked
other governments because they're certainly countries around the world that are much more
open to the future of education in a modern way than then we are safe here. Yes, we do. We have
demand everywhere. And you know, on governments, what we find is it's the same thing it
almost everywhere, which is if countries have a private model, you absolutely can get take rate
on the private side. The issue is ministers of education or secretaries or departments of education
are pretty much globally, very much going to wait and see until there's dramatically more proof,
which I'm not against. I was, you know, Peter Teele was a, you know, his, his daughter went to the
school and we were, I was comparing, you know, medical grade testing, you know, versus education.
And, you know, there aren't, you know, in education we roll stuff out to 55 million kids,
and there's no randomized control trial, right? There's no million million user like,
does this really work? And I would love, you know, one of the things that we'd love to do is be able
to, you know, as we get all this data out there in this, you know, time back at scale is due a
million student randomized control trial so that every pharmaceutical grade trial. So everybody
can be like, this isn't a hoax, right? This actually works. Oh my gosh, right? We need some of
that proof because a lot of things in education are, you know, there's a lot of bad learning
science and education that we need to undo and I believe proof and, and pharmaceutical grade
trials might be the way around that. Incredible. Yeah, as we close on this episode, I have one final
question, but Dave and Celine morning to give you a chance to ask. I would love to know how you
deal with the rate of change of technology and what your process says. Because if you think about,
you know, if you start with a batch of say, you know, six, seven, eight, or olds and you're planning
that to end as 18 year olds. But in the intervening 12 years, you know, half the kids will have
neural links and the other half won't, you know, and they'll be, they'll be doing something in the
back of their mind. You can't even see. How are you going to deal with this cognitive change during
that timeline? Yeah. So that, um, we're, we're humble enough to know we don't have all the answers.
You know, we talked to McKinsey and I talked to thousands of kindergarten parents, right?
And the pent kindergarten parents are the ones who who want the biggest change because they are
looking out at 12 years from now and they base, they all know this current school system is not going
to work, right? We need something different, right? They're, they're motivated to change
versus if you have a senior in high school, you're like, let me just get them to college or get them
up here, right? But if you have to look forward and project 12 years, you're going to want
something new. And all we say at Alpha is we wake up every day and we feel we're the leading school
that is saying how do we adapt to what the technology changes. So if you actually look at our
high school kids, we have a concept called a brain lift, which is the data structure for human
knowledge, right? And it literally divides, this is the stuff LLMs are going to be good at or
are good at and will be. And this is the part that humans are good at. And we're teaching them
as of today and with what we can project in the future, this is as good as we can get kids.
And this is how we're preparing you for that world. And you know, and baby grok 7 is like,
okay, well, it does everything the brain lift thought is, you know, and we got to move on.
But we believe there's a, you know, our our view very much. And I think this is an important point
about our culture. You know, McKinsey's best line is this is the best time in history to be a five-year-old.
Right? AI is going to impact adults very differently. We're in Austin, Uber's,
Waymo's, Robotaxies, right? Not a good time to be an Uber driver, right? But AI is going to give
kids superpowers, right? It's going to transform their childhood. It's going to let them do things
that our generation never even dreamed of. And so putting them, putting your kid in that kind of
environment, right, is going to be awesome for them. And you know, if you talk to, I have a, I have,
I have a dozen high school kids who are in my guide group, um, Spartacrupe, shout out. Um,
anyway, they, uh, you know, they wake up every day and when you talk to them, they're like, yeah,
you adults, and it's wraps for you guys. We are going to, AI is going to give us superpowers.
We're going to take over the world. Well, infinite longevity, too. Yeah. Exactly. So, I mean,
they can't be more optimistic about the future. And I think that's the kind of thing. By the way,
I think I'm just moving before us adults screwed up completely. I mean, they are. Don't worry,
they are. Don't worry, they are. Don't worry, they are. One of the reasons we, like,
move schools for one, uh, our kids at one point was, you have to assess the level of optimism
of the teachers teaching your kids. If your teachers are pessimistic about this, about the future.
What do you expect your kids to be? I couldn't agree. Matt Ridley, right, all our kids
re-rational optimists, right? That's a really good idea. That's a really good idea. That's a really good
degree of abundance as well. Okay. Yeah. And, and they, you know, he came to the school and he actually
was sort of an AI doomer when it came to education. And I couldn't have been more proud as our
student sat there and used his arguments from his books and examples from what their day is like
on why he needs to see the world differently. This is going to be awesome. Right. And, uh, and so I
think that's an important part of when you talk about culture that we need for our kids. And, you know,
Peter, we had a, we had a big foundation of a very large education philanthropy foundation came
and visited our schools and at the end of the time, uh, the head of the foundation said to my
guides and me, they said, you guys are so happy. And I was kind of like, what, you know, and they said,
we go and we visit schools and we talked to educators and they're all just so, uh, they're
encumbered and they're, they're depressed and they're like, it's so hard. And, you know, our, I was so,
I was so happy to see my guide said, what do you mean? This is the greatest time in the world to be
an educator because we finally are unleashed to do what we got into this world to do, which is
positively impact kids. And, and you can do those things. And the other thing I, I love and appreciate
and I think, you know, Joe is obviously a really great partner to have in this education endeavor.
But one of the things I say is, if you come to one of our schools, at the beginning of the school,
you're, we're not going to just dust off the same old presentation that says, hey, here's what
the school year looks like. This is the date of field day. This is the day for back to school night,
whatever. We're more like the Apple iPhone. We update every six weeks. We're constantly iterating
and we're constantly growing and learning and we're seeing what, what works and what doesn't. And
I will say families in our model, they have to flex their adaptability muscle as well because we're
always having kids do cool things and adjusting things as they work. And I think that's why we're
able to see such rapid innovation. But as part of that, we are on the forefront of it. So it's kind
of a fun and wild ride, which hopefully Peter, you guys will get to be a part of, you know,
in Santa Monica, seeing what that's like. Hopefully your AI works. Hopefully your AI works better than
Apple iPhone AI. Silly, what you represent here, buddy? Yeah, I think that's what's great. It's
such a clear watershed between everything you're doing and a growth mindset and everything
old and a fixed mindset. And I think you're probably pushing people over that align wonderfully.
If you you launched, I think 2016, if I remember right, right? We started the very first school in 2014
when my kids were in third and first grade. And Joe's daughters who are the same age as my
girls came in a couple years later. And we now have sophomores in college and then seniors in high school.
So this is Joe's in my last year as Alpha Parents. And then he'll be peer principal and guide leader
and I'll do it. If you go back to your founding, what would you have done differently
that would have accelerated or changed things? What have you learned now that you wish you knew then?
Oh boy. To partner with Joe at the very beginning, guys, right?
Well, I part of this, like, you know, part of this and back to the story three years ago,
why I got involved was, you know, I put my kids in 10 years ago. But I was like McKinsey,
just like all that education. This isn't scalable. This is great for Austin, it's great for
families. It wasn't until Jenny I came out. When I said, this is the technology that can let us scale
to a billion kids. So it really was that moment that said, okay, now I should get involved
because we can get it out to everybody. And I, what I bring to the party. And so, you know, that
would been it. And if you just rolled me back three years, you know, what would I, what would I have
done differently? The understanding, the educating parents. You know, I, I wake up every day.
And if you said, if I could wave a magic wand to fix education, it's actually not the students.
The students are awesome. Right? The issue is, I need the, because parents are the blocker,
the blocker to education reform is what's in parents heads. And so that whole concept of,
you know, in our three years, I did into a podcast, right? And I did, you know, and now I realize
educating parents, you know, McKinsey's been out there. We have to get out there because the
single biggest impediment to making education great for our kids is what our parents believe.
I'm in McKinsey. Where can we point people to learn more about alpha school? Where do they go?
We've got alpha schools that are launching coast to coast. We had 13 new schools this year
and we'll be continuing now. So you can go to alpha dot school and learn more about our model.
And then future of education on social media on Instagram. I've got a podcast called future of
education. And we spend a lot of time on those channels just giving parents a little bit of
a taste of what's possible in school when you free kids time up to go do awesome things and
develop. So future of education and alpha dot school. And Joe in a particular targets, you want to
point folks at? Oh, he's becoming an X star. Good. You can get J. Lee Mon is where I post and you'll see
sort of life as a principal. You know, in all the education and the visit, you'll see some
stuff about the business of education as well as what alpha kids are doing in our view around this.
And can if family wants to go and visit an alpha school to see if it's right for them,
is that a possibility? Absolutely. In fact, that's kind of the key is students will come and do
a shadow day to see if if the school's a fit. And the one thing we warn parents is don't send
your kid to a shadow day unless you are convinced that you want to move or your kids will rebel.
They'll be like, I'm not going back to my old school. I want to go to this new school. And so that's
one of the things we've got. We're hosting, we're hosting a few sessions at all of these schools
and getting kids into kind of experience this. And again, that whole idea of love of school,
it is so magical because when kids love school, it allows us to help them unlock their potential
and do big things. Amazing. I got to say, I came into this podcast saying, well, I always learned
something, but you know, how big a deal can it be? And I'm coming out of it saying, this is so inevitable
and so huge. This has been great. Yeah, I created a critical for America, critical for the world.
I mean, the speed of change is so extraordinarily fast that if we are still using the old methodologies,
we're hitting brick walls. We need some not just Alpha School, hopefully many different mechanisms
that are going to enable us to have our kids, our college kids, and even, you know, we
need to talk about it, but reskilling using this technology to reskill our employees is going to be
fundamentally critical. Well, thank you, Joe. Thank you guys. We really appreciate the pleasure
TV too. Sleam a pleasure as always. How am I time to school? Absolutely. Yeah, reskill yourself.
All right, guys. Have a beautiful day. Thank you. If you made it to the end of this episode,
which you obviously did, I consider you a moonshot mate. Every week, my moonshot mate's and I
spent a lot of energy and time to really deliver you the news that matters. If you're subscriber,
thank you. If you're not a subscriber yet, please consider subscribing so you get the news as it comes
out. I also want to invite you to join me on my weekly newsletter called Metatrems. I have a research team.
You may not know this, but we spend the entire week looking at the Metatrems that are impacting
your family, your company, your industry, your nation. And I put this into a two-minute read every week.
If you'd like to get access to the Metatrems newsletter every week, go to dmnds.com slash Metatrems.
Thank you again for joining us today. It's a blast for us to put this together every week.
